
The reason the taste of artificial banana flavouring and artificial banana flavoured products doesn’t taste like bananas is because it is based on a type of banana that was wiped out by a plague in the 1950’s.
Australia has over 10,000 beaches. You could visit a new beach everyday for over 27 years!
It was Nicholas Cage who first advised Johnny Depp to pursue a career in acting, during the mid 1980’s.
The national animal of Scotland is the Unicorn.
The directors of the film Despicable Me actually wrote their own language for the Minions called Minionise.
The mayor of the Alaskan town, Talkeetna, is called Stubbs and has been mayor of the town since July 1997. Stubbs is a cat.
The Nazis were the first ever people in modern history to start an anti-smoking and tobacco movement.
Due to the humid and moist conditions that a sloth lives in, moss and other similar plants will sometimes grow in its hair. Sloth’s also have very bad eyesight. These two factors can sometimes culminate in a sloth grabbing its own arm, whilst thinking it is a branch, and falling to its death!
Every year in June a bizarre festival takes place in the village of Castrillo de Murcia near Burgos in Spain during which men dress up like the devil and then jump over babies born in the previous twelve months of the year! Known as El Colacho, this strange custom is part of the country-wide Corpus Christi celebrations yet only happens in this small village.
Viagra, when dissolved in water, can make cut-flowers stay erect for up to a week longer than they usually would. Try it!
There is an uninhabited island in the Bahamas known as Pig Beach, which is populated entirely by swimming pigs.
Catnip is ten-times more effective at repelling mosquitoes than DEET, the main substance used in insect repellents.






If eaten in one meal, 30 to 90 grams of polar bear liver is enough to kill a human being.
American microbiologist Maurice Ralph Hilleman is accredited with developing 8 of the 14 routine vaccinations used today, these being; Measles, Mumps, Hepatitis A &amp; B, Chickenpox, Meningitis, Pneumonia, and Hemophilia influenza. He also discovered that Chlamydia was not a virus as it was previously thought to be.
In 2002 alone, more people in the U.S. were killed by dogs than in shark attacks in the past 100 years.
American college, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, deems certain students who take courses in Pistol Marksmanship, Archery, Sailing and Fencing as certified ‘Pirates’.
It is predicted that the reason why night insects, such as moths, are attracted to lights is because they mistake them for the light of the moon, which they used to navigate the Earth before mankind made artificial lights.
Justin Bieber once held up a sign from his hotel room window saying “Go to McDonald’s and get me a Big Mac”. He got his Big Mac.
In the early 1900’s, Lobster was considered the “cockroach of the ocean” and was synonymous with the poor – often eaten regularly by the homeless, slaves and prisoners. It wasn’t until after World War II that lobster became considered a delicacy and a food associated with the aristocratic classes.
Hares are born with fur and can see whilst rabbits are born ‘naked’ and blind.
In the 16th Century, it was a common belief amongst people that the Mandrake Plant grew only where the ejaculated semen of a dead hanged man touched the ground.
Film producer Jeffrey Katzenberg revived The Walt Disney Studios by producing some of their biggest hits: The Little Mermaid, The Lion King, Beauty and the Beast and Aladdin. After these he requested a promotion, and was then abruptly fired by them. He then swore revenge against Disney and founded DreamWorks Studios.
On Black Friday 2014, Cards Against Humanity was removed from being on sale and replaced with a “Bullsh*t” box, on sale for $6. This box contained “literal feces, from an actual bull,” as the description stated on their site. This was to protest to the Black Friday shopping craziness where shoppers will literally buy anything on sale. This special Black Friday edition of Cards Against Humanity sold over 30,000 copies, where all buyers actually received a box of bull poo.
Through the use of optogenetics, scientists were able to create a false memory within a mouse’s brain. This was done by marking the neurons that fired in the mouse’s brain when in one environment, transferring the mouse to a second environment and making these neurons fire whilst shocking the mouse’s feet, then transferring the mouse back to the first environment. This made the mouse believe it had had an unpleasant experience in the first environment when in fact it hadn’t.
On one of the islands off the West-Coast of Australia lies Lake Hillier. A bright, bubble-gum pink lake! Despite not being the only colored lake in the world, it is unique because it is the only colored lake where scientists have not yet determined what causes it to be such a bright pink.
