
Donkey Kong got his name because his creator believed ‘donkey’ meant ‘stupid’ in English and wanted to convey the impression that the character was a “Stupid Ape”.
The medical name for a butt crack is “intergluteal cleft”.
People can suffer from a psychological disorder called Boanthropy that makes them believe that they are a cow. They try to live their life as a cow.
The name for the shape of Pringles is called a ‘Hyperbolic Paraboloid’.
There is a McDonald’s in every continent except Antartica.
Mr Potato Head was the first toy to be advertised on TV.
A duel between three people is actually called a truel.
The stage before frostbite is called “frostnip”.
The two tiny holes drilled in every BIC pen is to ensure that the air pressure is the same both inside and outside the pen, which helps the ink flow to the tip.
In South Korea there is an emergency number  to report spies.
Japan is facing a ninja shortage. There is a high demand for “ninja shows,” but it is a dying tradition and companies have trouble time finding properly trained ninjas.
The process by which bread toasts is called the ‘Maillard Reaction’.
Snails have 14,000 teeth and some can even kill you!






Admiral Ackbar from Star Wars Episode VI: Return of the Jedi was not a man in a suit, it was actually a giant puppet.
Sonic the Hedgehog’s full name is actually Ogilvie Maurice Hedgehog.
Even though Froot Loops are different colors, they all have exactly the same flavor.
George Clooney did the voice for ‘Sparky’ – a gay dog in South Park.
Most toilet paper sold for home use in France is pink.
Marmite was one of most confiscated items at airports from the U.K. – to overcome this issue, Marmite made smaller ones for travelling.
The human nose can remember 50,000 different scents.
Cards against Humanity bought an island in Maine to preserve wildlife. It is called Hawaii 2.
Daddy longlegs have penises, which technically makes them not a spider.
The television was invented only two years after the invention of sliced bread.
Bullfrogs do not sleep.
The dark region on the north pole of Pluto’s moon, Charon, is called Mordor.
