
If you’re a female and you feel like your heart beats quicker than your male counterparts, you’re not wrong. Women’s hearts are proven to beat faster than men’s.
As well as having faster heart beats, women blink twice as much as men as well.
Hiccups can last a very long time. The record is held by Charles Osborne – this poor man had hiccups for a total of 68 years without stopping!
Around 70% of people tilt their heads to the right rather than the left when kissing somebody else.
Can’t remember your dream from last night? That’s perfectly normal, since most people will forget 90% of their dreams.
Make sure you wear a hat this winter – a total of 80% of your body heat is lost through your head, so it’s time to invest in a good woolly beanie.
It’s not just your cheeks that turn red and expose your embarrassment when you’re blushing. Your stomach also turns red, but not many people will notice this.
Every 3-4 seconds, around 50,000 cells in your body will die and be replaced by new ones.
Fingerprints are unique to each person, making them an amazing phenomenon. Adding to this is the fact that they’re developed within just three months of conception, meaning you were totally unique from the start.
During the average lifetime, your heart will pump a grand total of 182 million liters of blood.
If you’re a man, the smallest cells in your body are sperm cells.
It’s scientifically proven that children grow faster in the spring, so you’re not imagining things when your little nephews and nieces seem to be suddenly older by the summer.
It’s much less effort to be happy – you’ll use 17 muscles to smile vs. 43 to frown and be miserable.






While this can’t be said for everybody, the average person will say around 5,000 words every single day.
If you thought steel was strong and durable, your bones are five times stronger! It’s difficult to break them, but that’s why it hurts so much when you do.
Babies seem to have big eyes since the eyeball never actually grows. On the other hand, your ears and nose never stop growing!
The chances of living to be 100 years old are very slim for most people, and only one out of every two billion people will live to be 116 years old.
Research on heart attacks was carried out, and one of the conclusions was that Monday is the most likely day to have a heart attack – be careful!
No matter how many times you try, it’s impossible to sneeze and keep your eyes open at the same time.
After a long day at work, you will be around 8mm shorter than you were in the morning. If you feel taller when you wake up, it’s because you are.
The average person will have sex 4,239 times during their life.
While you’re flying in an airplane, your hair will grow at twice the rate it usually does. That’s why you seem to need more regular haircuts when you’ve been traveling a lot.
Our taste buds seem to change throughout our lives, but by the age of 60, the average person has lost half their taste buds. This is why older people don’t seem to care as much about bitter or unusual tastes.
Being locked in a totally sealed and closed room wouldn’t cause you to die from a lack of oxygen. You would eventually die, but from carbon dioxide poisoning.
People burn more calories being asleep than they do by watching the TV. More reason to take a nap!
