
Way back in the history of Australia, indigenous people were settled on the land for around 50,000 years before the British arrived.
You will find more kangaroos than you will humans!
Australia is an island, and it’s a large island at that. As a result, you can visit more than 10,000 beaches across the country.
Koala bears are popular in Australia, although there are 10 times as many camels than koalas.
There is no Bills of Rights in this country, making it the only Western country to omit this from its governmental system.
Saudi Arabia imports camels from Australia.
There are so many different types of species in Australia that only 25% of them have been discovered and are known to humans. This leaves 75% which are totally undiscovered as of yet.
In Australia, there is a mountain called Mount Disappointment. Apparently the view was so disappointing that there was no better name for it.
Want to go for a Burger King? You won’t find it in Australia, but you will find the same fast food chain but under the name of Hungry Jacks.
According to a survey conducted in Britain, around 10% of the population believed that the moon was closer than Australia.
Highway 1 in Australia is the longest highway in the world, spanning around 9,000 miles in total.
It’s such a large country, and with 91% of the surface area taken up with vegetation, it’s a very prosperous country too.
The national floral emblem is the wattle, a flower which was selected in 1912.






There are around 200 different types of races and cultures within Australia, making it one of the most multi-cultural nations in the world.
Even in 2018, politicians discussed the Australian flag design and whether it should be changed. The flag still incorporates the Union Flag of the United Kingdom, which isn’t a true reflection of modern Australian life.
In 1902, women received the right to vote in Australia. This made the country the second in the world to implement this.
Nowhere has a higher gambling rate than Australia, with more than 80% of adults involved regularly in some form of betting or gambling.
Australia Day takes place every year and is a celebration of different cultures, races, religions, beliefs and views.
Kangaroo meat is widely available, and many people like this meat for its low fat content.
Over a trillion bottles of wine are produced in Australia every year. While much of the wine stays within the country, there is a thriving export market to the rest of the world too.
There are several large cities in Australia, including Sydney and Melbourne. Canberra was chosen to be the capital city as a result of an ongoing debate between Melbourne and Sydney over which would be the capital.
Ugg boots, the popular winter footwear made from sheepskin, originated in Australia.
More than 70% of the Australian population participates regularly in some form of sport, although over 25% of the country is considered to be obese.
Not only is Australia the flattest continent on earth, but it’s also the largest island on earth.
The largest producer of gold in the world is located in Australia. Rather than being found in one of the large cities, its home is a small town named Kargoorlie.
