
Bulbasaur is the third most commonly seen Pokémon in the anime series, with Meowth being number two, and obviously Pikachu at number 1.
Bulbasaur is mostly a male species, with 87.5% of all captures being male, with the rest being only 12.5% female. However in the anime, the gender of Ash Ketchum’s Bulbasaur has never been stated.
In 2016, an Australian restaurant called “Down N Out” created a range of Pokémon themed burgers each with their own twist including one in homage to Bulbasaur. The mouth-watering item had green buns and even facial features.
The island of Niue in Oceania released a coin with Bulbasaur and the Niue coat of arms on either side.
An onion or a lily is thought to be the closest related shape of the bulb on Bulbasaur’s back.
Ash’s Bulbasaur in the animated series has been with him since early on in the show. He has kept the creature and allows it to protect the other creatures in Oak’s Pallet Town Lab.
In an IGN list, Bulbasaur was rated as the 52nd top Pokémon of all time.
Fushigidane  is the Japanese alternative for Bulbasaur and means strange seed, whereas in English it is just a combination of Bulb and Dinosaur.
Bulbasaur, as many of us know, is a grass type Pokémon, but they are also classed as a Poison type Pokémon.
In Super Smash Bros games; Brawl and Melee, there is a trophy of Bulbasaur that appears.
Bulbasaur evolves into Ivysaur from Level 16, and then into Venasaur from level 32.
In Pokémon Go, a Bulbasaur is one of the 3 initial choices but if you walk away from him and the others 4 times in a row, a Pikachu will appear allowing you to catch it.






The only HM Bulbasaur can learn in the original Red/Blue games is Cut, which is a normal type attack.
Due to Bulbasaur’s small bud on its back, it is capable of standing on its rear legs until it evolves into Ivysaur, when the bud becomes much bigger.
In the anime series, Bulbasaur is voiced by 2 separate actresses to date. From series 9 to present it is voiced by Michele Knotz, and for series 1 to 8, it was done by Tara Sands who has also voiced a character in Yu-Gi-Oh!
In Pokemon Black &amp; White, you are unable to trade the innocent Bulbasaur in the Global Trade System unless you rename him – this was due to poorly tested language restrictions.
If the friendship between player and Pikachu is strong enough is Pokémon Yellow, the player will receive a Bulbasaur from a character in Cerulean City.
The height of Bulbasaur is 2 ft. 4 inches  and weighs in at 15.2 lb .
As starter Pokémon Go, Bulbasaur is the only one that is actually a dual-type specimen, none of them in the original few game series are more than single type creatures.
Bulbasaur is the first Pokémon to appear in the listings numerically in the Kanto Pokédex. It’s #231 in the Johto Pokédex.
Ash’s Bulbasaur forced itself to stop evolving in the series as it refused to become Ivysaur.
In Ireland, the Automobile Association or AA, warned users whether “catching a Bulbasaur is worth a potential court appearance and a fine of up to €1,000.” This was to discourage the growing usage of players using the Pokémon Go app whilst driving.
In the 2014 FIFA World Cup, Bulbasaur was selected as one of the 11 Pokémon characters used as Mascots for their National team.
In the anime version of Pokémon a Bulbasaur is incorrectly taught Whirlwind, a skill the creature cannot learn. This seems to be a trend with the anime series.
Ash’s Bulbasaur previously lived with a girl named Melanie who looked after abandoned Pokémon.
