
There are more chickens on earth than people – 25 billion. There are also more chickens than any other bird species.
Chickens can remember over 100 different faces of people or animals.
A mother hen turns her eggs about 50 times per day, and can lay more than 300 eggs per year.
The record number of eggs laid by a chicken in one day is 7. The record number for eggs laid by a chicken in one year is 371.
An egg develops at 88 degrees Fahrenheit, and is laid at 105 degrees.
Chickens were domesticated in Southern China around 8,000 years ago in 6000 B.C.
The color of the egg depends on the chickens earlobes. Red ear lobed chickens lay brown eggs, while white ear lobed chickens lay white eggs.
As chickens grow older, they lay larger eggs, but fewer than when they’re younger.
Chickens can taste saltiness, but not sweetness.
In Gainesville, Florida, you have to eat fried chicken with your bare hands. Eating it by any other method is illegal.
A hen has to eat about four pounds of feed to make one dozen eggs.
The earliest known printing of “Why did the chicken cross the road?” was in 1847 in a New York Magazine.
On average, 97 chickens are killed every 0.05 seconds worldwide.





By vaccinating chickens, the United Kingdom virtually eliminated salmonella.
There’s a rare breed of chicken from Indonesia that is completely black including the feathers, beak, and organs, due to hyperpigmentation. They can be sold for $2,500.
There is an invention called a “chicken gun” which is used to test the resistance of airplane windows and engines by blasting dead chickens at the aircraft.
There’s a wild mushroom called a Laetiporus that tastes nearly the same as chicken. It is sometimes called the “fried chicken mushroom.”
In South Korea, there are more fried chicken restaurants than there are McDonald’s restaurants worldwide.
Chicken wings used to be considered undesirable and sometimes thrown out, until 1964 when a restaurant owner barbecued and served them in 1964 and called them Buffalo wings. They were named after the city they were first made in, Buffalo, New York.
The record for most egg yolks in one egg is 9 yolks.
The largest chicken egg ever recorded weighed 12 ounces and contained two yolks.
Americans consume 8 billion chickens per year which is more chicken than beef; at 80 pounds of chicken per capita compared to 63 pounds of beef per capita.
When a chicken gets its head cut off, it can run the length of a football field before dropping dead.
The longest recorded flight by a chicken lasted for 13 seconds at a total distance of 301 feet.
Chickens have prehistoric roots and are the closest living relative of the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
