
His full name is Daniel Jacob Radcliffe. He is 29 years old and born on 23rd July 1989.
While most people knew him after the Harry Potter movies were released, this wasn’t his first appearance on the screen.
When he was just 10 years old, he played the young David Copperfield in the BBC’s adaptation of David Copperfield.
He got the part after his mother sent in a Polaroid photograph of her son to the BBC.
His first major movie was The Tailor of Panama, in which he played Mark Pendel.
He was 11 years old when he was cast in Harry Potter and the Philosopher’s Stone – the first Harry Potter movie to be created.
Daniel Radcliffe broke over 80 wands while filming the Harry Potter movies because he used them as drumsticks!
Radcliffe played Harry Potter for ten years, before finishing in 2011 with the release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2.
During his later years on the set of Harry Potter, he was nicknamed Harry Puffer as a result of his smoking habit.
He is known for losing his cigarette lighters, and regularly asks his fans if he can borrow one.
Can you imagine Harry Potter as anybody other than Daniel Radcliffe? His parents almost didn’t let him take on the role since they thought it might be too big a commitment for him.
He found out he had got the part while he was at home in the bath.
Both J. K. Rowling and Chris Columbus stated that Radcliffe was their first choice for the part.






In a bid to convince Radcliffe’s parents to let him take the part, Warner Bros. agreed to a contract where filming would be in the United Kingdom only. This meant he didn’t have to travel to Los Angeles.
David Heyman, producer of the Harry Potter movies, met Daniel and his father Alan at a play. Heyman thought Radcliffe would be perfect for the part and invited him to audition.
His favorite of the Harry Potter books is Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban.
He proved himself to be an extremely reliable cast member, and only took two days off in all the ten years of filming.
While most fans of the movies would think the other actors would be his closest friends, he actually found a best friend in one of the costume department staff who was 41 years old with two children.
Daniel Radcliffe has described himself as having an addictive personality, and has said that he almost developed an alcohol addiction in 2009.
In interviews, he mentioned how he would sometimes turn up for work half-drunk.
He suffers from Dyspraxia, a condition which affects coordination and movement.
In the Broadway production of Equus, Daniel Radcliffe appeared nude and says he doesn’t have a problem with it at all.
He is 5’5 tall, which many fans are surprised to discover.
Radcliffe was concerned that Emma Watson and Rupert Grint would surpass him in stature during the filming of the Harry Potter movies.
When he first read the Harry Potter books, he didn’t like them; however, he finished reading them all after being offered the title role.
