
The original Disneyland in Anaheim, California, opened on July 17th, 1955.
It only took one year to be constructed with 2,500 laborers, and cost $17 million to build.
The Disneyland location in Anaheim is the only theme park directly supervised and built by Walt Disney.
The idea for Disneyland came to Walt Disney after taking his daughters to Griffith Park in the 30’s and 40’s, and watching them on the merry-go-round.
The bench from Griffith Park where Walt Disney came up with the concept is on display in the park near entrance of Great Moments with Mr. Lincoln.
In order to gain further inspiration for his concept, he visited other parks such at Tivoli Gardens in Denmark, Efteling in the Netherlands, and Children’s Fairyland in the U.S.
Disneyland California Adventure was built on the site of the original Disneyland parking lot.
In 2013, Disneyland was the third most visited park in the world with about 16.2 million guests visiting.
The earliest documented account of Disney’s plans was in 1948 in a message to a production designer. He referred to his concept at the time as “Mickey Mouse Park.”
Upon opening day in 1955, 28,000 people attended, however half of those purchased forged tickets or snuck into the park by hopping the fence.






When it was originally opened, there were only 18 attractions, 14 of which are still running. Today, there is now a total of 51 attractions!
When it initially opened, admission cost $1 – today it is now a whopping $99!
The most popular Disneyland souvenir is the Mickey Mouse ears. Over 84 million have been sold since the park opened!
There are approximately 200 wild cats that live in Disneyland to help get rid of rodents. All of the cats were spayed and neutered before being re-released back into the park. When the cats can’t survive off of only hunting the rodents, there are feeding stations set up for them around the park.
The longest serving cast member has been working there since 1956. He currently works at the Carnation Café.
Over 700 million people have visited Disneyland since the initial opening.
All of the plants in the Tomorrowland ride are edible to represent the advancement of humanity.
In the Pirates of the Caribbean ride, all of the skeletons used to be real, taken from UCLA’s medical center. Now, there is only one human skull in the ride, which is the one attached to the headboard.
Disneyland employees were not allowed to have mustaches until 2000.
There is a time capsule that was buried at Sleeping Beauty’s castle in 1995 for the 40th anniversary, which will be opened 50 years later in 2045.
