
The planet Earth weighs approximately 5,974,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 kilograms , that’s roughly the same amount of weight as 54,807,339,449,541,284,403  Blue Whales – the heaviest creature on the Earth itself!
Contrary to popular belief it does not take the Earth 24 hours to complete a single rotation, it actually takes it 23 hours, 56 minutes and 4 seconds to complete a rotation and astronomers call this a sidereal day.
A year on Earth is not 365 days as widely thought, but rather 365.2564 days. The extra 0.2564 days is where the extra day that is added onto February every leap year, or every four years, comes from.
Ever wondered why people call the Earth the Blue Planet? That’s because 70% of the Earth’s surface is covered with water!
Of the 70% of water covering the Earth only 3% of it is fresh, the other 97% of it is salted.
Of this 3% more than 2% resides in ice sheets and glaciers, meaning less than 1% is in lakes and rivers.
Due to the amount of water covering the Earth, it would be one of the brightest planets to look upon from a distance due to the way in which the water would reflect the Sun’s rays.
The Earth consists of 3 different the layers: the Crust, The Mantle and The Core. And each of these three different layers is made up of different elements.
The Crust consists of 32% Iron, 30% Oxygen, 15% Silicon, 14% Magnesium, 3% Sulphur, 2% Nickel – which totals 96%. The other 4% is made up of trace amounts of Calcium, Aluminium and other miscellaneous elements.
Before I tell you what the rest of the Earth’s layers consist of, here’s an interesting side-fact about the Earth’s Crust: it consists of different plates floating perpetually on the Earth mantle, moving at the same rate that a person’s fingernails grow!
On an elemental level, the Mantle consists of 44.8% Oxygen, 21.5% Silicon and 22.8 Magnesium, although it also contains trace amounts of Iron, Aluminium, Calcium, Sodium and Potassium. However, these elements are all bound together in the rocks that make up the Earth’s Mantle.
The Mantle is the largest layers of the Earth, approximately 2,970 km thick – this makes up about 84% of the Earth’s total volume.
The Earth’s core consists of two layers, an outer-layer and an inner-layer. Although the specific percentages are unknown, both the outer and inner layers of the Earth’s Core consist of mainly Iron and Nickel.
The outer-layer of the Earth’s core is believed to be liquid, whereas the inner-layer of the Core is believed to be a solid as hot as the Sun!
Due to the unique Nickel-Iron properties of the Earth’s Core, when coupled with the Earth’s rotation, The Earth is surrounded by a powerful magnetic field that protects it from the effects of Solar Wind.






In the past there have been many misconceptions about the Earth, such as when people thought it was the centre of the Solar System and that all other planets orbited it! Or when they thought it was flat and that a person could sail off the edge by sailing over the horizon!
The Earth’s rotation is gradually slowing down. However it is slowing down so very minimally  that it will be about 140 million years before the Earth experiences 25 hour days.
Of all the planets in our solar system, the Earth is the most dense with a density of roughly 5.52 grams per cubic centimetre. The second densest planet in our solar system is Mercury with a density of 5.427 grams per cubic centimetre.
The Earth is the only planet in our solar system not named after either a Greek or Roman God.
The Earth is associated with the Goddess Terra Mater  who was the first Goddess on Earth and the mother of Uranus.
The name Earth comes from a combination of Old English and Germanic and is derived from ‘eore’ and ‘ertha’ which mean ‘ground’.
Earth is the only planet in our solar system to have water in all three of its forms .
One third of the Earth’s surface is either partially or totally desert.
The Earth is struck by lightning 100 times per second – that’s 8.6 million times per day!
The Earth is the only place in our solar system where a Solar Eclipse can happen.
The Queen of the U.K. is the legal owner of one sixth of the Earth’s land surface!
The Earth is actually not round in shape – it is geoid. This is because the rounded shape has a slight bulge towards the equator which is caused by the Earth’s rotation.
Although life  has only existed on Earth for 150 – 200 million years, the Earth itself is almost 5 billion years old!
The Earth tilts at roughly 66 degrees.
If you drilled a tunnel straight through the Earth and jumped in, then it would take you about 42 minutes to get to the other side!
