
Amazon are seriously considering the use of drones in its daily delivery, the Prime Air service is said to be able to deliver packages within 30 minutes via UAV’s.
In remote areas, such as Africa, drones are used for the shipment of live-saving medical equipment and medication where human transport would be too time consuming.
Domino’s are trialling drones for their delivery process. Although not lifesaving, the idea is similar to that of those used in remote areas, delivering the product as quickly and as hot as possible.
The first country to build drones was Israel, with Israel Aerospace Industries heading the charge in terms of export numbers.
In 1916, the first attempt at a powered UAV was the “Aerial Target”. It was created by A. M. Low.
Drones are going to revolutionise the farming world, allowing farmers to view all their field whilst drinking a cup of tea. The drone gives them a view of their field including damaged crops and those ready to harvest.
Drones are becoming more and more popular for weddings, giving the couple a 360 view of their big day.






There is actually a drone racing league. The DRL uses venues such as sports stadiums and warehouses to illuminate a track and have the players manoeuvre their crafts around whilst racing one another.
In one episode of The Big Bang Theory, Howard questions his engineering ability and almost causes a drone to go on a killing spree after breaking and failing to repair a drone the guys were playing with.
It is, according to drone schools, illegal to fly your drone that’s capable of travelling up to a mile or more any further than you can see it with the naked eye or above 400 feet.
On 26th January 2015, a drone crashed onto the White House lawn and the pilot faced charges which were later dropped due to it being an accident.
The police and the FBI are using drones for surveillance and sting operations. There has been uproar regarding the use of drones and police warrants for private property.
Armed drones were the first military drones used. They were first used to deal with feared terrorist and military-in-chief Mohammed Atef in 2001.
A TGI Friday’s promotion “mobile mistletoe” used a drone to fly mistletoe around the restaurant and during one faithful flight accidently cut off the tip of a diner’s nose.
A viral video caught a real ‘man vs. nature’ fight to the death. In the video a hawk caught hold of a civilian drone and destroyed the device. This was all captured by the drones’ on-board camera. The video just goes to show, nature always beats machine!
