
It is estimated that there are about 550 wild parrots living in New York City, especially in Queens and Brooklyn. No one is one hundred percent sure how they got there, but we know it definitely was not by natural migration. The most accepted theory is that they escaped from a shipment headed to JFK Airport.
There is a death metal band called Hatebeak who’s lead and only vocalist is a grey parrot named Waldo.
One of the most elusive and perplexing birds in the world is the Australian Night Parrot – there were only 3 confirmed sightings in over one century.
Most parrots are known for being extremely intelligent – one species in particular, the Goffin cockatoo, and solve complex mechanical puzzles.
There are almost 400 different species of parrots.
Out of all these types, there is only one that can’t fly, called the Kakapo parrot.
The Kakapo parrot is also the world’s largest parrot, as well as on of the longest living birds on the planet with an average lifespan of 95 years.
Sadly, the Kakapo is also critically endangered – as of 2018, there are only 149 alive.
If you want to refer to a large group of these birds, the proper term is a pandemonium of parrots!
In the late 1800’s, there was a Scotch Whiskey company who trained 500 grey parrots to repeat certain marketing slogans. They then distributed them out for free to various pubs and grocers.
In Saint Paul, Minnesota, there is a Parrot adoption and rescue where parrots are taught to paint and the art is sold to raise money for the sanctuary.
In India, it is illegal to keep parrots at home.
Pirates and parrots are associated with each other because of the classic novel “Treasure Island” in which Long John Silver has a talking green parrot that is named Captain Flint.
Contrary to popular belief, parrots don’t talk with vocal chords, because they don’t have any! Instead, they talk by controlling the muscles in their throat and directing airflow in a certain way that mimics different tones and sounds.
Most parrots are found in tropical and subtropical regions, such as Australia, Asia, Central and South America, and Africa.





There is only one alpine parrot in the world – the kea parrot. Because of its thick feathers and rounded body that conserves body heat, the kea lives in cold environments, specifically high in the mountains.
It’s difficult to give an average lifespan of a parrot, because every species is vastly different. On the short side, Parakeets live 7-18 years, while African Grey’s can life 50-60 years!
Among parrots, the largest wingspan belongs to the Hyacinth Macaw with a wingspan of nearly 5 feet  which makes them wider than they are tall, which is nearly 4 feet  from head to toe.
As a result of experimenting, scientists have discerned that parrots have the logic of a four-year-old. They can use tools and solve problems!
Parrots are the only bird that can eat with their feet, which are zygodactyl. This means they have four “toes” on each “foot” – two facing forward, and two facing backwards.
Parrots have impressively strong beaks. Some, like the Hyacinth Macaw, have the ability to crack macadamia nuts, or even a coconut.
Most parrots are monogamous, even outside of the breeding season.
Oddly enough, most of parrot’s taste buds are located on the roof of their mouths.
The diet of a parrot is very broad, ranging from fruit, seeds, nuts, insects, and even meat.
Unfortunately, one third of the world’s parrots are facing extinction because of habitat destruction and poaching.
It’s been discovered that there are antibacterial pigments in a parrots feathers which helps prevent them from getting sick.
The Guinness World Record for the most words known, belongs to Puck the parrot who knew more than 1,700 words.
Depending on the species, parrots sizes range from 3 to 40 inches in length. The smallest species of parrot is the buff-faced pygmy which is only 3 inches long.
Parrots are social creatures that live in groups of about 20 to 30 birds.
The main predators of parrots are snakes, birds of prey, monkeys, and humans.
