
In the early days of Google, it could process 30-50 pages per second, today it processes millions of pages per second.
As of 2009, at their Mountain View headquarters, Google rent 200 goats to mow their lawns as a low-carbon alternative from California Grazing.
The first of many Google Doodles was an out of office message in 1998, the doodle was a man standing behind an O, the second in Goo
Klingon was added as a Google language option in 2002.
Google’s headquarters feature a range of random items and decorations, including Google colored phone boxes, a T-rex nicknamed Stan and adult-sized ball pits.
Oxford English Dictionaries and Merriam-Webster both in 2006 added the word ’Google’, it’s defined as a “search for information about  on the Internet using the search engine Google”.
Google’s new employees are known as Nooglers, they are required to wear blue, yellow and red hats at their first company-wide meeting.
Google offer all employees a free lunch, in an all-you-can eat buffet style system, and snacks including cookies and salmon. The first snack given to employees was Swedish Fish in 1999.
Google acquire a new company each week on average, obtaining YouTube over meetings at Denny’s in 2006 for $1.65 billion.
Google at first was stored on ten 4GB hard drives in a Lego casing for easy storage expansion. This is now on display at Stanford University. The index now has over 100 million GB of data.
Google owns numerous big names including Android the mobile operating system, Waze the GPS traffic system and Nest a  smart home system.
Google bought Motorola in 2011 for $12.5 billion and selling it after its surprise downturn for $2.5 billion.






If a Google employee dies, their spouse gets half of their salary for 10 years.
Originally the Google homepage was aligned to the right and was very sparse as the founders didn’t know HTML and wanted a simple interface.
Google, in 2013, had a blackout that took down all of its services for five minutes causing a 40% drop in internet traffic across the world.
