
Instagram debuted on October 6, 2010.
Initially, Instagram was called Codename, but the name changed to Instagram before it was launched.
The name Instagram comes from a mashing of “instant camera” and “telegram.”
The first photo ever posted was by the co-founder, @kevin on July 16, 2010. The photo is a picture of a dog.
A study has discovered that 8% of all Instagram accounts are fake.
The most Instagrammed food is pizza, taking the lead in front of sushi and steak.
It’s estimated that posts that include at least one hashtag gain 12.6% more engagement.
Instagram was bought by Facebook in 2012 for $1 billion dollars. At the time of its purchase, there were only 30 million users on the platform.
As of 2018, Selena Gomez is the most followed person on Instagram with 138 million followers.
There are at least 1 million advertisers on Instagram.
The top five countries that use Instagram, in order of popularity, are the United States, Russia, Turkey, Brazil, and the United Kingdom.
The most used emoji on Instagram is the heart emoji.
The top three most used filters are Gingham, Clarendon, and Juno.
Every month, there are over 16 million Google searches for “Instagram.”
The top five most followed brands on Instagram, in order of popularity, are National Geographic, Nike, Victoria’s Secret, 9GAG, and Nike Football.






More than half of the top brands on Instagram use the same filter for every post.
As of 2018, there have been over 45 billion photos shared on this platform.
Unsurprisingly, selfies are one of the top uploaded pictures on Instagram. There are over 290 million selfies on Instagram.
Instagram is the second most engaged network, just behind Facebook which takes the lead. More than 60% of its users log in on a daily basis.
The most used hashtags are #love, #instagood, #me, #cute and #follow.
96% of the top fashion brands in the U.S. use Instagram.
32% of all U.S. internet users are on Instagram, however over 75% of all Instagram users are located outside of the United States.
On a normal day, there are 80 million photos shared on Instagram and 3.5 billion likes.
Every day, one hundred million accounts upload a Story on a daily basis.
The majority of Instagram users are between 18 and 29 years old.
In 2017, Instagram was the most used network for cyber-bullying.
The most liked photo on Instagram is a post by Kylie Jenner of her newborn daughter – this photo clocks in at over 17.9 million likes.
80% of all Instagram accounts are personal – an average user has 648 followers and is following 359 accounts.
New York City was the most Instagrammed city of 2017. However, the most Instagrammed location was Disneyland in Anaheim, California.
When Instagram launched the video function in 2013, 5 million videos were uploaded in the first 24 hours.
