
Pasta is a type of noodle that is used in cooking.
It is a staple food of most Italian cuisines.
The first reference to pasta, in a book, was in 1154.
It is typically made from durum wheat flour.
Most pasta falls under two categories – it is either dry, or it is fresh.
There are over 600 types of pasta, and some have over 1300 names.
The three most popular pastas’ are: penne, spaghetti and macaroni.
There are many varieties of pasta, such as: long pasta, short pasta, minute pasta, egg pasta, fresh pasta and al forno pasta.
Fresh egg pasta contains egg, which makes it all the more tender when cooking.
Pasta can be served in multiple ways. It can be mixed with a sauce or a fresh condiment, it can be stirred into soups or stews, and it can also be baked.
Fresh pasta is often served with meat, in dishes such as ravioli.
Dried pasta doubles in size when cooked and is often served with thick hearty sauces.
The traditional Italian way of cooking pasta is known as ‘al dente’.
If pasta is cooked properly, it should stick to a wall when it is thrown.
In Greek mythology, it is believed that the God Vulcan invented a device that made strings of dough. This was the earliest reference to a pasta maker.






Nowadays, pasta makers are found in many homes and restaurants.
The Ancient Romans used to fry their pasta.
The three most popular pasta dishes are: macaroni cheese, spaghetti bolognaise and lasagne.
Uncooked dry pasta can be kept for up to a year.
Cooked pasta can be frozen and re-eaten within three months.
It was traditionally eaten by hand.
One cup of cooked pasta is the size of your fist.
Italians eat over sixty pounds of pasta, per person, per year.
Italy produces 1,432,990 tons of pasta a year.
It exports 1.7 million tons a year.
The average price for pasta in the UK is 89 pence, making it an affordable meal for all.
Pasta has many health benefits, as it is low in calorific value and contains various nutrients and minerals.
Pasta can also be given to dogs and cats. It’s believed in helps them in their growth development and to help their coats glossy and healthy.
The National Pasta Association is a worldwide group which enjoys eating and discussing pasta, and its history.
October is National Pasta Month.
