
Galileo first recognized the Milky Way’s band of light as individual stars in 1620 but Edwin Hubble, an American astronomer, is said to have discovered the true shape and span of the Milky Way as well as there being more galaxies outside of the Milky Way.
The Milky Way and Andromeda, another spiral galaxy, are heading toward one other at about 120 km per second , and will collide in over 4 billion years.
Strong evidence says that at the galactic center  of the Milky Way lies a supermassive black hole.
The name Milky Way derives from the Greek galaxías kýklos or milky circle due to its appearance as a dim milky band in the sky.
Cherokee legend says the Milky Way was formed when a dog stole a bag of cornmeal and whilst being chased, he spilled some. Thus the galaxy is referred to as “The Way the Dog Ran Away”.
The Milky Way, when seen with the naked eye at night from any one point on the earth, seems to be made of about 2,500 stars, the real figure is actually between 100-400 billion stars.
The Milky Way is always losing stars through supernovae, , and produces around seven stars per year.






Any photo you’ve ever seen of the Milky Way from space is either of another galaxy or an artist’s rendition. We’re sat inside the galaxy so obviously cannot take an aerial view.
The age of the Universe is estimated to be 13.7 billion years. The oldest stars in the Milky Way, found in globular clusters, are 13.6 billion years old.
The galaxy rotates around a central axis. Since about 65 million years ago, or the time the dinosaurs became extinct, the Sun is believed to have travelled about a third of the way around this centre.
Keper-186f, a planet on the outer edge of the Milky Way’s habitable zone circling a dwarf star, was discovered in 2015 and is 4.730 trillion km  away. Keper-186f may be able to sustain life.
Two-thirds of the galaxies in the known universe are spirals, and two-thirds of those are barred, the Milky Way ticks both of these boxes making it one of the most common galaxy designs.
The Milky Way has a diameter of about 9.5 x 1017 km 