
Red Bull was founded by the Austrian entrepreneur Dietrich Maeteschitz in 1987.
Originally, Red Bull started as a Thai drink called Krating Daeng, which was geared towards truckers who needed something to get them through their long shifts.
Red Bull has sold over 40 billion cans, with over 5 billion sold in 2013 alone.
While Red Bull is known for sponsoring and holding adrenaline fueled events and sports, they have a contest called Paper Wings which is a paper airplane competition.
The Red Bull cans are entirely recyclable. Additionally, the manufacturing is done in one locations which saves 80% of renewable resources, as opposed to having multiple locations.
For a short time in 2009, Red Bull was banned in Germany due to trace amounts of cocaine found from the cocoa leaf extracts. However, Red Bull only uses de-cocainized cocoa leaf, which means you would have to drink 100,000 liters of Red Bull to be affected.
The original mix of Red Bull was sweeter than the European version.
In order to create a cult following of younger people, Mateschitz paid popular university students to throw parties in odd locations. He would give them enough Red Bull to tie on the top of their cars on the drive back to school.
The logo on the Red Bull cans are not cattle, but a type of bovine called a “gaur”.
Red Bull has its own record label – titled Red Bull Records of course! The most popular group on the label is Awolnation.






The first sporting event put on by Red Bull was called the Dolomitenmann, which is billed as “the world’s toughest team relay race”. The event includes running, paragliding, whitewater kayaking, and mountain biking.
In spite of many health claims, Red Bull contains the same amount of caffeine as a regular cup of coffee, which is 80 mg. A 16-ounce Starbucks Grande has 330 mg!
Red Bull Cola, introduced in 2008, is made with all natural ingredients.
It wasn’t until 1997 that Red Bull was introduced in the United States. The first state it debuted in was California.
Red Bull was the first energy drink ever made, and they created the energy drink industry.
In 2014, Red Bull was sued for false advertising for their slogan, “Red Bull gives you wings”. A consumer said he had been drinking Red Bull for 10 years and never gained wings or enhanced athletic skills. It ended up being a $13 million lawsuit.
In 2012, Red Bull sent a professional skydiver into space in a helium balloon to then parachute to earth, 24 miles off the ground. The jumper became the first person to break the sound barrier without any engine power.
There is a version of Red Bull that is only available to Formula 1 VIPs.
Red Bull holds a yearly running competition called Wings for Life which raises money to donate to research for spinal cord injuries and parapalegia.
Red Bull employs almost 12,000 people around the world in 171 countries.
