[
    In the commentary the director and producer mention that many of the best lines in the film were improvised by Denzel Washington and Mark Wahlberg.   
    It was Paula Patton's idea for her to appear topless in an early bedroom scene with Denzel Washington as she couldn't believe these two characters would redress after making love.   
    During the film's development Vince Vaughn was originally cast as Bobby and Owen Wilson was originally cast as Stig.   
    The film is based on the graphic novel of the same name by Steven Grant published by Boom Comics.   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2009 Blacklist; a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
Denzel Washington and Paula Patton also appeared in Déjà Vu (2006).   
    When Bobby goes into the bank at the beginning of the movie a woman in a white dress walks out of the bank. A few days later when they follow Papi's men to the bank the same woman walks out with same dress on.   
    Shipped to theaters under the code name "Duel Action."   
    The bank robbery takes place in Tangipahoa Parish Amite Louisiana.   
    The film's trailer features The Dead Weather's 2010 song "Die by the Drop". This song was previously used in the trailer for Contraband (2012) also starring Mark Wahlberg and directed by Baltasar Kormákur.   
Ellen Pompeo and Marisa Tomei were considered for the role of Deb.   
Doug Liman Antoine Fuqua Pierre Morel and Martin Campbell were also considered to direct.   
    The pen Denzel Washington uses in the bank scene was bought by a fan in New York City.   
    Mark Wahlberg is chewing gum in nearly every scene he is in.   
    Second collaboration between Mark Wahlberg and Baltasar Kormakur. They also worked on Contraband (2012).   
    When Denzel (Bobby) is in the desert and he confronts the two men riding a dune buggy one of the men suggests that he is Muslim. Then Bobby says "As-Salamu alaykum" Denzel Whasington played Malcolm X in 1992's "Malcolm X". It means Peace be upon you.   
    There was only one gun. The illusion that there were two was created in post-production.   
    Mark Walhberg also played a U.S Navy SEAL in the film Lone Survivor.   
    James Marsden and Mark Wahlberg turned down the role of Johnny Rico in 'Starship Troopers' (1997). Both men would appear in this film together sixteen years later.   
    Trench escapes the Navy base by wearing a Lieutenant Commander's uniform. In Crimson Tide (1995) Denzel Washington played a Navy Lieutenant Commander.   
    In the movie trailer to the film there is scene used that is not used in the actual film where Stig (Wahlberg) tells Trench (Washington) that he was "Special Forces." Another version of the scene is used in the movie where Stig does not tell Trench who he actually is. This version may have been changed due to Stig actually being a Navy SEAL as Special Forces applies to the Army. This scene in particular is the desert scene after their bank heist where Trench reveals to Stig that he is a DEA agent.   
    2 Guns plot line has some of the elements of the 1973 movie "Charley Varrick" starring Walter Matthew in the title role. Charley Varrick and his bank robbing gang rob a bank also named Tres Cruces (Tres Cruces Western Fidelity). The take was 765118 but the bank manager reported the theft of only a few thousand dollars. Charley Varrick realizes the money they took belonged to organized crime using the bank to harbor illegal funds. Charley tries to return the money to the mob in order to avoid retaliation. In 2 Guns Mark Wahlberg and Denzel Washington rob a bank known as Tres Cruces expecting 3 million in the heist but actually getting 43.125 million. Bill Paxton's character Earl tries to get the 43.125 million back from Mark Wahlberg and Denzel Washington in 2 Guns.   
    In this movie Michael Stigman is an undercover Intelligence Specialist with the Navy S.E.A.L.s. Mark Wahlberg portrayed U.S. Marine Corps veteran Bob Lee Swagger in The Shooter (2007).  ]
