[
    According to Keanu Reeves filming was first done in Japanese for the sake of the supporting cast and then filming was done in English.   
    This is the seventh cinematic adaptation of the 47 Ronin incident after The 47 Ronin (1941) Chûshingura (1958) Chûshingura (1962) Akô-jô danzetsu (1978) Shijûshichinin no shikaku (1994) and Saigo no Chûshingura (2010). This is however the first Hollywood cinematic adaptation.   
Carl Rinsch clashed with Universal over the final vision of the film. Universal wanted to make an effects-driven fantasy blockbuster akin to Avatar (2009) or The Lord of the Rings while Rinsch envisioned the film as more of a drama such as Gladiator (2000) or Kingdom of Heaven (2005).   
    The arrows for the film were made by Michael Reape a famous European arrow maker. A small amount of arrows were made in "museum" quality for close-ups.   
    Due to studio interference the film saw several script changes during filming and a radical re-edit during post-production. The part of Yorick van Wageningen who originally had a significant supporting role as Kapitan was cut back to a silent cameo due to these decisions.   
    When executives at Universal saw an early cut of the film in 2011 they had concerns about the story and ordered script changes. They also slated another week of shooting to make Keanu Reeves' character more integral in the film's finale.   
    The character of Kai seems to be patterned after two historical figures: William Adams an English sailor who became the first Western samurai and Minamoto Yoshitsune a twelfth-century warrior said to have been trained in martial arts by Tengu.   
    According to Costume Designer Penny Rose everyone had a customized costume in keeping with his or her background: "We based it on the culture and what the shapes should be - everyone's in a kimono - but we've thrown a kind of fashion twist at it and we've made it full of color."   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2008 Blacklist; a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
    Five Japanese actors were cast alongside Keanu Reeves (Hiroyuki Sanada Tadanobu Asano Rinko Kikuchi Ko Shibasaki and Jin Akanishi) to make the story more authentic instead of picking actors that would be recognizable in the United States.   
Keanu Reeves was hesitant to take on the role of Kai he was worried his character wouldn't feel integrated into the main arc of the story.   
Carl Rinsch was rumored to have been kicked out of the editing room during post-production.   
    The film's budget ballooned to 175 million dollars because of complex re-shoots and a lengthy post-production period. While not a success in theaters it did well on VOD DVD and Blu-ray.   
Carl Rinsch originally wanted to make this film as an art-house samurai movie.   
    The film has almost nothing in common with the original historical epic being set "in a world of witches and giants."   
    Re-shoots were done in London during late August 2012 delayed by the Olympics and the filming of Keanu Reeves' directorial debut Man of Tai Chi (2013).   
    Not screened in advance for critics.   
    Released in Spain as "The Legend of the Samurai".   
    CinemaScore reported a positive B+ grade from first-weekend audiences.   
    This is Carl Rinsch's directorial debut.   
Hiroyuki Sanada and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa both starred in Revenge (2011) as the same character Satoshi Takeda. The main character's mentor.   
    The film was supposed to come out in November 2012 but after primary shooting was complete and just prior to the release the studio demanded more scenes for Keanu Reeves to capitalize on his star nature and insert a love story involving Reeves' character as well as add in more fantasy battle scenes in the style of The Hobbit or Harry Potter.   
    This is Jin Akanishi's debut in a Hollywood movie.   
    After the Japanese box-office results came in Universal wrote down the initial budget costs for their quarterly results before the film got released in the U.S.   
    The witch's eyes have the medical condition called heterochromia.   
    Film debut of Rick Genest.   
    Composer Javier Navarrete did a score for the original cut of the film which was not used.  ]
