[
    Rory towards the end of the film is reading the book 'Trash' which is Curtis's next film (Curtis wrote the screenplay for both Trash (2014) and About Time (2013)).   
Richard Griffiths's last movie.   
Zooey Deschanel was originally cast as Mary but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts and Rachel McAdams was cast.   
    Tim describes his mother more like a Bernard than a Mary. Richard Curtis always tries to include a Bernard character in his movies. The inspiration comes from Bernard Jenkin the Tory MP for North Essex and former shadow defence secretary. Mr Jenkin's wife is a former girlfriend of Richard Curtis.   
    Has three of the "Harry Potter" series co-stars: Richard Griffiths Bill Nighy and Domhnall Gleeson.   
    In South Korea more than 3 million people watched the movie which made it a surprise hit there.   
    When Tim mentions that it's a long walk to Mary's car he's not kidding. The distance between Joanne's flat and Mary's apartment is about 6 miles across central London.   
    Despite the film being set in England none of the three actors who play the main love interests in the film are actually English. Domhnall Gleeson is Irish Rachel McAdams is Canadian and Margot Robbie is Australian.   
    Domhnall Gleeson's mom is actually called Mary just like in the movie.   
    Shipped to theaters under the code name Cupboard.   
    This is the third film Bill Nighy and Tom Hollander have been in together the others being Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Man's Chest (2006) and Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End (2007).   
    This is the second film in which Rachel McAdams has played a time traveler's wife. The first film was The Time Traveler's wife that starred Eric Bana.   
    The scenes on the Underground were filmed at Maida Vale station on the Bakerloo line.   
    The US release date is the same as director Richard Curtis' birthday (November 8th).   
    Tim passes by Abbey Road Studios when he arrives in London. For decades the logo of the music company EMI could be seen above the name of the studio. In 2013 the EMI logo was removed above the studio name because the company was sold to Universal Music in September 2012 and to comply with international regulators EMI's European operations were sold to Warner Music in 2013. However the studio was one of the operations that Universal Music was allowed to keep but no logo of the new owner was put in place of the old EMI logo.   
    Margot Robbie and Domhnall Gleeson have worked together in three films: About Time (2013) Goodbye Christopher Robin (2017) and Peter Rabbit (2018).   
    The boy playing young Tim at the end of the movie is the director's (Richard Curtis) son.   
    This is one of four movies in which Rachel McAdams stars as the love interest of a time traveler. The previous ones were The Time Traveler's Wife (2009) in which she played the titular wife to Eric Bana's character and Midnight in Paris (2011) in which she played the fiancée of Owen Wilson's character. In none of these movies does McAdams's character get to participate in time-travel herself. In both 'About Time' and 'The Time Travelers Wife' she is proposed to in the same exact way while in bed. She also stars in 'Doctor Strange' (2016) in which she plays a time manipulating doctor's love interest.   
    When wedding planning Mary goes 'that's a lock for Hagrid' in reference to the Harry Potter character. Domhall Gleeson starred in the Harry Potter series as Bill Weasley.   
    The film takes place in the span of around 8 or so years. Tim and Mary's marriage is around 3 years after the film starts and Posy is seen entering reception at the end of the film in which she would be 5 years old.   
    Tim discovers that if he travels back in time to a point before his child has been born then he will end up with a different child to the one he knew. Near the end of the film both Tim & his father travel back in time to when Tim was a child himself yet this does not change any of his 3 children because they didn't change anything in the past.   
    Tim and Kit Kat in the cupboard under the stairs is another Harry Potter reference as that is where Harry's room in The Sorcerer's Stone.   ]
