[
    In an interview with Piers Morgan former President Jimmy Carter said that he believes the film was a "great drama" and it deserved to win an Oscar for best film. However Carter noted that although "ninety percent of the contributions to the ideas and the consummation of the plan was Canadian" the film "gives almost full credit to the American C.I.A. With that exception the movie's very good" Carter said but "the main hero in my opinion was Ken Taylor who was the Canadian ambassador who orchestrated the entire process."   
    In reality Tony Mendez was only in Teheran for a day and a half.   
Ben Affleck has stated that the production was granted unprecedented access to C.I.A. Headquarters both for interiors and exteriors and that the gratitude for that privilege belongs to Tony Mendez the retired C.I.A. officer portrayed by Affleck in the film.   
    In order to make the movie feel like the 1970s Ben Affleck shot it on regular film cut the frames in half and blew those images up two hundred percent to increase their graininess. He also copied camera movements and bustling office scenes from All the President's Men (1976) for sequences depicting C.I.A. Headquarters; for Los Angeles exteriors he borrowed from The Killing of a Chinese Bookie (1976).   
    For the opening scene the Director of Photography gave 8mm cameras out to certain people in the crowd to make the opening scene have what would seem like this was actual footage from the riot.   
    As shown in this movie by the late 1970s the Hollywood sign (which had first been erected in 1923 as "HOLLYWOODLAND" to advertise an upcoming real estate development) had fallen into severe disrepair. In 1978 the Hollywood Chamber of Commerce had a fund-raising campaign in which they solicited nine prominent people to give about twenty-eight thousand dollars each (one donor for each letter) for the restoration. Some of these benefactors included: Playboy Magazine founder Hugh Hefner who gave the Y; singers Gene Autry and Andy Williams (the second L and the W respectively) and heavy metal/shock rock star Alice Cooper who replaced the third O (by far the most damaged of the letters) in memory of Groucho Marx. Warner Brothers Records a division of the company that later released this film donated the second O. However this restoration was completed before the events depicted in this movie started.   
    In the movie it was stated that both the British and New Zealand embassies in Tehran turned away the six American diplomats leaving the Canadians as their only refuge. In fact the British embassy did shelter the six for a few days but it was agreed by everyone that the Canadian embassy would be more secure and suitable so they moved. A New Zealand official transported them and the British also helped other Americans trapped in the country at the time. Ben Affleck acknowledged that he intentionally deviated from the real events in order to quicken the pace and build up the tension.   
Ben Affleck requested that the actors playing the embassy refugees live together for a week in a house dressed with 1979 decor in order to get acquainted and to better understand the period.   
Ben Affleck a longtime Led Zeppelin fan admits he was desperate to use the track "When the Levee Breaks" (from "Led Zeppelin IV") and vigorously pursued the rockers to win permission but they asked him to make a very specific change. The scene was originally shot with Tate Donovan placing the record needle on the beginning of the album which was wrong: "When the Levee Breaks" is actually the last song on the second side of the album. Affleck agreed to make the change and he headed back to the editing suite in order to make the band happy. He later told the Los Angeles Times he appreciated the band's attention to detail despite having to pay for another shoot.   
    A lot of the confidential material seized in the storming of the American Embassy can now be seen in a museum in Tehran.   
    In a curious coincidence the Swissair airliner that flew the six "houseguests" from Tehran to Zurich was code-named "Aargau" (after the canton/district in Switzerland).   
Ben Affleck was criticized by some viewers for casting himself (a European-American) as Tony Mendez and not a Latino/Hispanic actor. Mendez (who is half-Mexican half-European) however said he had "no problem" with being portrayed by Affleck and approved of his performance.   
    In keeping with the period in which the film is set (around 1979) Warner Brothers used their "Big W" logo which was utilized on their releases around that time and painted the Burbank Studios logo onto their water tower. It was the name of the building from 1972 until 1990 when Warner Brothers and Columbia Pictures were sharing the same facilities.   
    The Iranian official seen on archive footage at the end of the film issuing dire threats against Canada for their role in the rescue was later executed by the regime he served.   
    In addition to playing Sahar the Canadian ambassador's housekeeper Sheila Vand also narrates the prologue.   
    All the Super 8 footage that is used in the opening sequence of the storming of the embassy was completely recreated. None of it is authentic.   
    Several family members of the real Tony Mendez appear as bus passenger extras after the group is allowed to board the plane.   
    Comic book artist Jim Lee owns some of the storyboards from the fake film. He stated on Twitter when this film was released that he had no idea they had been used in the mission he only bought them being a fan of Jack Kirby.   
    None of the scenes in the film were actually shot in Iran.   
    During one of the many promotions for this film Alan Arkin didn't realize that Bryan Cranston was in Little Miss Sunshine (2006) surprisingly quoting "Get out of here. I had no idea" This was due to the fact that both actors didn't share scenes together (just like in Argo (2012)).   
    With John Goodman's performance as John Chambers this is the only time that a real-life Oscar winner is portrayed in a film that won the Academy Award for Best Picture.   
    The script originally began by jumping directly into the protests outside the U.S. Embassy. However Director Ben Affleck and Screenwriter Chris Terrio did not want the film to simply be a portrayal of irrationally crazy Middle Easterners. The opening credits and prologue which details how the U.S. helped install the Shah in power and the Shah's subsequent corruption and brutality was created so as to make the anger after the Iranian Revolution understandable while not supporting the grossly illegal and immoral hostage taking at the embassy.   
    The script used for the fake film project was based on the 1967 science fiction novel "Lord of Light" by Roger Zelazny. In real-life Make-up Artist John Chambers (played by John Goodman) came up with the title "Argo" because he loved knock-knock jokes. In the film the title becomes an off-color joke.   
    The story of the rescue was first filmed in 1981 as Escape from Iran: The Canadian Caper (1981) by Director Lamont Johnson.   
John Goodman appeared in two consecutive Oscar-winning Best Pictures: The Artist (2011) and this film. In both films he portrayed a Hollywood character a Producer in The Artist and a Make-up Artist in this movie.   
    While John Chambers Tony Mendez and Lester Siegel are trying to figure out how to make their fake movie project look plausible Siegel recalls that he made a movie once with Rock Hudson and from that draws the conclusion that if you want people to believe a lie you should have the media disseminate it for you. This seeming non sequitur is a reference to the fact that Hudson one of the biggest Hollywood stars and sex symbols of the 1950s was secretly gay and his agent Henry Wilson actively fed misinformation about Hudson's "girlfriends" (really studio-arranged dates for publicity only) to the mainstream media. When the gossip tabloid "Confidential" threatened to expose Hudson's homosexuality Wilson instead fed them then-scandalous information about two of the less-famous stars on his roster (Rory Calhoun and Tab Hunter) and arranged a sham marriage between his secretary and Hudson. Hudson's homosexuality was not widely known outside of Hollywood until his death in 1985.   
    The character of Jack Kirby (played by Michael Parks) shown briefly as the artist of the storyboards for the fake movie was a pioneer of the American comic book industry and a co-creator of such seminal comic book characters as Captain America Iron Man The Incredible Hulk the Silver Surfer and the teams known as The Avengers The Fantastic Four and The X-Men. Kirby created storyboards for the adaptation of Roger Zelazny's novel Lord of Light which were used as "proof" of the movie production during the real-life "Canadian Caper".   
    At his Best Director Academy Award snub Ben Affleck joked that he didn't feel particularly aggrieved as he didn't get nominated for Best Actor either.   
    The stock footage of the Iranian-American getting attacked by angry American protesters was filmed in front of the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Los Angeles. The read-through of the fake "Argo" film occurred in the same hotel.   
    After the film was released Iran hired a radical lawyer in France to pursue a lawsuit against the film claiming that the film was designed to pave the way for U.S. Military operations against Iran by garnering anger against Tehran for the embassy hostage crisis. The attorney filed a claim saying Ben Affleck was guilty of war crimes for this possibility. The case was heard in a French court by a judge who heard this presentation and then immediately dismissed the suit as groundless.   
    In the film Tony Mendez hits upon the idea of the fake movie while watching Battle for the Planet of the Apes (1973) with his son. John Chambers designed the make-up for the original Planet of the Apes (1968) earning an honorary Oscar for his work.   
    First movie in seven years to win the Oscar for Best Picture without winning the Oscar for Best Director (the previous movie was Crash (2004)). It is also the first movie in twenty-three years to win the Oscar for Best Picture without being nominated for Best Director (the previous one was Driving Miss Daisy (1989)).   
    The first film directed by Ben Affleck not to be set in his hometown of Boston.   
    Lester Siegel (played by Alan Arkin) is said to be a composite character. However in real-life Make-up Artist Robert Sidell a friend of John Chambers posed as the fake film's Producer. Sidell's wife Andi was the fake production company's receptionist. Ben Affleck assumed that Sidell like Chambers had passed away but he was informed just before the film's release that he was still alive and well. Affleck had Robert Sidell flown to the film's premiere in Los Angeles and in his opening remarks he gave recognition to Sidell for his part in the mission.   
    The main person who pushed the story to be published was former C.I.A. Director George Tenet (tenure 1997-2004). While the story was never published because of bureaucracy and the yet-to-be-concluded Iran hostage crisis it was only when Tenet assumed the Directorship of the C.I.A. and in conjunction with the Agency's fiftieth anniversary that he persuaded Tony Mendez to write his account and memoir of the mission.   
    The first film directed by Ben Affleck in which he did not play a part in writing the screenplay.   
    The "movie" being filmed in the movie "Argo" is named for the Greek mythological ship in which Jason and the Argonauts sailed to retrieve the Golden Fleece.   
    The film has enjoyed great success in bootleg format in Iran where the full facts of the "Canadian Caper" have never been made public (this is not to say that the film is a fully balanced account of the event as it has attracted criticism for its rather one-sided portrayal of the Iranian people).   
Alan Arkin has admitted that although his Lester Siegel is a composite character he based his character essentially on the late movie mogul Jack L. Warner who died shortly before the actual hostage crisis.   
    While Chris Terrio was writing the script he imagined Tony Mendez being played by George Clooney.   
    The first Best Motion Picture winner at the Oscars since Grand Hotel (1932) not to have been also nominated for Best Director or for one of the lead acting categories.   
Zsa Zsa Gabor's Beverly Hills estate exteriors doubled for the house of Lester Siegel (Alan Arkin). Gabor who was at home during filming was too ill to observe the production proceedings.   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2010 Blacklist; a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
Ben Affleck met former C.I.A. operative Tony Mendez for the first time in March 2011 to discuss his role. The meeting took place at the Washington D.C. Chadwicks Bar on K Street where the infamous spy Aldrich Ames had passed classified American documents to the K.G.B. In the movie however the initial meeting place where the pivotal scheme was hatched was staged at the Smoke House restaurant in Burbank California a real-life haunt for many movie celebrities. George Clooney and Grant Heslov's company SmokeHouse Productions is named for this restaurant.   
Alan Arkin was the first actor cast in the film.   
    The fake film poster created for the real Argo mission was rather plain and black-and-white. In the movie it is briefly visible in the background before the script reading event is held for the press. In the same scene the colorful fake poster used in the movie is briefly visible too.   
    The Best Picture Academy Award win was announced live via satellite from the White House by First Lady Michelle Obama.   
    The first three films Ben Affleck has directed were recognized for a Best Actor or Actress in a Supporting Role Oscar nod: Amy Ryan (Gone Baby Gone (2007)) Jeremy Renner (The Town (2010)) and Alan Arkin for this film.   
    The Warner Brothers logo from the late 1970s can be seen at the opening of the film.   
    The rifles carried by the Iranian revolutionary guards in the movie are accurately selected fixed-stock G3-A4 a variant of German H-K G3 rifles manufactured locally in Iran by the country's Defense Industries Organization. The movie producers resisted the temptation to use the easy-to-find AK-47s which were indeed used by the Iran's revolutionary guards but only a couple of years after the hostage crisis during the war with Iraq.   
    In Greek mythology Jason's ship "The Argo" was named after its builder a man named Argus. Those who sailed on it were called "The Argonauts".   
    The film features one hundred twenty speaking parts.   
    Tied with Gigi (1958) for being the shortest-titled Best Picture Academy Award winner at four letters. The Best Picture winner with the longest title is The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King (2003) (ten words and thirty-five letters).   
    The real John Chambers worked with Director Alan Arkin on Twigs (1975).   
    The film is produced by two Batman actors: George Clooney and Ben Affleck. With this film both men won their Second Oscars in their careers.   
    The silver robot costume used in the Hollywood script read-through of Argo also appears as the character S.A.M. on the Adult Swim series NTSF:SD:SUV (2011).   
    Included among the "1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die" edited by Steven Schneider.   
Victor Garber is the second cast member from Toronto's legendary 1972 stage production of "Godspell" to portray Ken Taylor on-screen. Martin Short played Taylor in a 1982 skit on SCTV (1976).   
Scoot McNairy (Joe Stafford) and Kerry Bishé (Kathy Stafford) played characters that are husband and wife in the 1980s. In Halt and Catch Fire (2014) McNairy and Bishé also played a married couple in the 1980s.   
Hamilton Jordan and Kyle Chandler who plays him in the film graduated from the University of Georgia.   
    The movie was film critic Roger Ebert's pick for the best film of the year and was the last film he would choose for the honor before his death in 2013.   
Ben Affleck and Rory Cochrane appeared in Dazed and Confused (1993).   
    Third collaboration between Ben Affleck and Titus Welliver following their work on this film The Town (2010) and Gone Baby Gone (2007) and second collaboration between Affleck and Victor Garber following The Town (2010).   
Alan Arkin and John Goodman appeared in Mother Night (1996) and Love the Coopers (2015).   
    Despite not receiving an Academy Award nomination for Best Director Ben Affleck won all the major precursor awards (Golden Globe BAFTA Critics Choice and the DGA Award) for his directing efforts. As of 2018 this is only example of such an anomaly to ever occur in any Oscar category (directing writing acting etc.).   
    The shot used for the postscript text features Tony's son's shelf of science fiction toys and collectibles. Among them are Star Wars figurines posed standing on a display with appropriate name places. According to their labels the "Jawa" and "Sand People" figures have been switched. C-3P0 is missing.   
    Tony Mendez is 5"7 in real life. Ben Affleck who portrays him in the film is 6"4 making him nine inches taller.   
    John Goodman stars in Kong : Skull Island and Bryan Cranston stars in Godzilla. Both are in the same cinematic universe    
Ben Affleck and Screenwriter Chris Terrio reunited in the DC Extended Universe. Scoot McNairy appears in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016).   
    Ben Affleck and Zeljko Ivanec previously appeared in School Ties (1992)   
Tony Mendez: Passing by behind Ben Affleck with his family when Tony is dropped off at the airport to fly to Tehran.   
Rafi Pitts: Appears as the Iranian Consulate Official. He was also Ben Affleck 's personal consultant on the film.   
    The dramatic flight from the airport with a last-minute chase by the Republican Guard is entirely fictional. In reality the diplomats showed up for their flight with booked tickets and had no trouble boarding their plane. As the flight was at 5:30 a.m. there were no Republican Guards on duty even they were not that zealous for the cause.   
    When the film was screened at the Toronto International Film Festival. It drew criticism in that it unfairly minimized the Canadian government's role in the rescues. Ben Affleck agreed and he re-wrote the postscript text that states that the C.I.A.'s operations complemented the Government of Canada's efforts and the mission has become an admirable example of international cooperation.   
    The Iranian chief guard that questions Tony Mendez and his group when they're about to leave Iran is the same guard that was arresting a woman at the airport when Tony was entering the country.  ]
