Tom Holland was not allowed to read the script for this film, since he revealed too many secrets for Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017). In one of the promotional videos for the movie, several of its cast members are in an interrogation room refusing to reveal any spoilers, and Holland's mouth is conspicuously taped shut.  , 
    Drax's line "I'll do you one better: Why is Gamora?" was ad libbed by Dave Bautista. - In an interview Dave says that Chris Pratt actually gave him the idea for the line.  , 
    The Wakandan war cry "Yibambe" is Xhosa for "hold strong". Other possible translations include "hold fast" or just simply "hold it"; all of these translations are appropriate for their situation.  , 
    Mark Ruffalo revealed that he was given a fake script due to his habit of accidentally spoiling past Marvel movies. He jokingly claimed in an interview that the fake script was better than the real one.  , 
    Steve Rogers (Chris Evans) had a new look for this film. At the end of Captain America: Civil War (2016), Steve Rogers quit as Captain America, something which occurred several times in the comic book. For the first time, he assumed the identity of "Nomad." Rogers' costume in this film captured basic elements of the Nomad character, in that it is primarily blue and features yellow, disk-like objects attached at the collar. For the second time Steve Rogers quit, he was featured to have grown scraggly with a beard, and he would eventually shave the beard and create a new identity as "The Captain." Consequently, the physical appearance and costume for Steve Rogers is a combination of the two most popular times he quit being Captain America.  , 
    The Russo brothers originally confirmed that Captain Marvel would be in this movie. However, Joe Russo later declared that the character would not, and she would instead make her debut in her own movie. The character will have a major role in Avengers 4.  , 
Tom Holland said that although he is a big fan of Chris Pratt and loved working with him, their scenes together were often challenging. Pratt's tendency to joke in and out of character made it hard for Holland to keep a straight face at times.  , 
    Security for the filming at Durham Cathedral was so tight that not even the Cathedral wardens were allowed access inside.  , 
Chris Evans and Chris Hemsworth ad-libbed the dialogue between Captain America and Thor in which they compared their facial hair, reasoning that they have known each other long enough to have that kind of friendly banter.  , 
    The film takes place four years after Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) and Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 (2017). Both Guardians films took place in the same year.  , 
Hugh Jackman expressed interest to appear in an Avengers film, but he said he would only reprise his character, Wolverine, if he appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe. In December 2017, however, Jackman officially stated he would not be reprising the role and he would love to see someone else play the character, naming actor Tom Hardy as his personal choice. Logan (2017) was Jackman's last film as Wolverine.  , 
    Proxima Midnight, the female member of The Black Order, normally wears a black horned helmet in the comic books. This was changed to organic horns growing from her head, to avoid similarities with Hela's distinctive helmet in Thor: Ragnarok.  , 
    Just as they paid homage to their television show Community (2009) in the second and third "Captain America" films, the Russo brothers also included another easter egg from their other well-known show, Arrested Development (2003), in this movie. In Captain America: Civil War (2016), the stair car from Arrested Development (2003) appears in the Berlin airport. In this film, blue Tobias Fünke from that same show appears in one of the Collector's display cases - he can be seen behind and to the left of Gamora in one shot.  , 
Kenneth Branagh (who directed Thor (2011) seven years earlier) can be heard at the very beginning of the film issuing the distress transmission that the Asgardian ship was being attacked.  , 
    Loki says "we have a Hulk" to Thanos. This is similar to what Tony said to Loki in 'The Avengers.'  , 
    Although not explicitly stated in the film, Corvus Glaive and Proxima Midnight of The Black Order are actually husband and wife.  , 
    Filming at Durham Cathedral involved moving almost all of the pews to make room for the film sets. After filming on Saturday night, the sets had to be moved and the pews replaced for Sunday services. On Monday, everything was changed around again to complete filming.  , 
Robert Downey Jr. had a separate deal from his Marvel Cinematic Universe co-stars when he signed on to reprise his role as Tony Stark/Iron Man in subsequent Avengers films, after The Avengers (2012). However, his appearances in Captain America: Civil War (2016) and Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017) were not tied to this deal. These negotiations occurred separately, after he completed his contract to do the Iron Man (2008) trilogy.  , 
    Josh Brolin claimed that he did not see Black Panther (2018) until a week before this film opened due to it being constantly sold out in L.A. Brolin added that stars of the Marvel Cinematic Universe don't receive any special privileges of screening passes to the franchise.  , 
    According to Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige, the Avengers are expected to have a "shakeup" in their team lineup between Avengers: Infinity War (2018) and the untitled Avengers sequel (2019).  , 
    In a NY Times interview, when asked about how the script was written to accommodate the large cast, co-writer Stephen McFeely said, "Not every scene can be 25 people in a room. You're going to have to make kickball teams and then have a tournament."  , 
    Robert Downey Jr. requested the furniture from his house in Los Angeles be shipped to the filming location in Atlanta, and the movie studios complied.  , 
    Was originally titled 'Avengers: Infinity War Part I', with the next movie titled 'Avengers: Infinity War Part II'. In late July 2016, Marvel Studios announced that this film would simply be known as Avengers: Infinity War, while Part II was initially referred to as Untitled Avengers (2019) film. The final title of Untitled Avengers Movie (2019) was not revealed until much later because it contained a spoiler for Part I.  , 
    The 2014 Comic-Con revealed that Josh Brolin would play Thanos in future Marvel films, when the actor came on stage wearing the Infinity Gauntlet.  , 
    This is the nineteenth film released by Marvel Studios in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  , 
    According to Chadwick Boseman, production on Infinity War began just two weeks after production on Black Panther (2018) ended. This meant that all the actors and even the extras from that appeared in both films had no problem retaining their cadences.  , 
    Josh Brolin based his characterization on Marlon Brando's role as Colonel Walter Kurtz in Apocalypse Now.  , 
    Thor confirms that "Groot" is a language that can be learned and spoken, as he took it as an elective in school on Asgard. This explains why only Rocket was originally able to understand Groot, and the other Guardians had to learn over time. This also confirms that Groot understands English (and likely other languages) but is only able to speak "Groot."  , 
    Thanos says he was called a madman on his homeworld of Titan. In the comics Thanos was known as the Mad Titan. He is also reffered to by this name in Guardians of the Galaxy (2014).  , 
    Like several names of people, things and places in Thor's universe, the term Niðavellir is from old Norse/Icelandic, its literal translation being "Field of ancestors".  , 
    Was shipped to theatres under the name "Mary Lou."  , 
    Natasha Romanoff sports a whitish-blonde hair color, making her resemble Yelena Belova, who for a time impersonated Black Widow in the comics.  , 
    Marvel Studios made the hashtag #ThanosDemandsYourSilence to help stop spoilers.  , 
    Captain America's phone number is a north Georgia area code, which is one of the filming locations. Unlike many "555-1234" TV/movie type phone numbers, this was an actual phone number. However, calling the number results in a "cannot complete this call" message.  , 
    With a budget of 321 million dollars, this is the most expensive film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to date, and the most expensive superhero film of all time so far.  , 
    Doctor Strange has been studying for a few years since his solo film and is now considered one of the more powerful characters in the MCU. The writers also wanted to have him come off as sort of "the adult in the room" throughout the film.  , 
    Spider-Man asks Tony if he's seen that "really old movie" 'Aliens.' This mirrors his first appearance in 'Captain America: Civil War,' where he calls 'The Empire Strikes Back' a "really old movie."  , 
    Tony Stark telling Peter Parker to cut it out with the pop culture references is quite hypocritical, as Stark often pokes fun at other characters by calling them by movie titles or character names. In The Avengers (2012), Stark calls Loki Reindeer Games (2000), Rock of Ages (2012), and Shakespeare in the Park (1995), and he calls Thor Point Break (1991). In this movie, he scorns Ebony Maw by calling him Squidward, and he calls Star Lord Flash Gordon (1980).  , 
    This film, along with Untitled Avengers Movie (2019), was entirely filmed with digital 2D IMAX cameras, specially customized versions of the ARRI Alexa 65 with IMAX technology. Captain America: Civil War (2016) was the first Marvel Studios film to incorporate the new cameras, but only for its airport fight sequence. This made Avengers: Infinity War (2018) the first non-documentary film to be shot entirely with IMAX cameras in an exclusive open-matte aspect ratio of 1.90:1, even though the standard theatrical and home video releases crop the film down to the regular widescreen aspect ratio of 2.39:1.  , 
    First movie of Marvel Cinematic Universe to enter the Imdb top 10 movies of all time.  , 
    Although Joss Whedon directed the first two Avengers films, he did not return to direct either of the next two Avengers films. Some cast members later admitted that Whedon had a difficult time directing such a close group of actors, since every creative difference he had with a single person would often lead to a discussion with the others as well. Instead, the Russo brothers, who directed Captain America: The Winter Soldier (2014) and Captain America: Civil War (2016), directed Infinity War and its sequel.  , 
    " Avengers: Infinity War" became the 4th movie to gross over $2 billion worldwide. It joins " Avatar ", " Titanic ", and " Star Wars: The Force Awakens ".  , 
    The films' release dates were revealed while Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) was still in production.  , 
    On February 11, 2017, Marvel released the first on-set footage from the first day of filming (January 27, 2017). The footage featured a first look at one of the sets from the movie, with Robert Downey Jr. (Tony Stark/Iron Man), Tom Holland (Peter Parker/Spider-Man) and Chris Pratt (Peter Quill/Star-Lord) shown on set. Marvel Studios President Kevin Feige confirmed the movies as the culmination of the entire series from its beginning, with the first Iron Man (2008) movie. Feige also confirmed that the Avengers were broken into two sects in Captain America: Civil War (2016), in order to set up Avengers: Infinity War (2018). Feige described Thanos as, "The biggest, best and baddest villain that Marvel has ever had," and stated that Thanos would reveal his reasons for hunting down the Infinity Stones. Concept art was also shown depicting Rocket Raccoon fighting alongside Thor, it was recently revealed how the Guardians will meet the Avengers.  , 
    The name Thanos is a short form of the Greek name Thanatos, which means 'death' in Greek.  , 
    This film is in Chapter Seven of Phase Three in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  , 
Tom Holland accidentally revealed the film's teaser poster via an Instagram live stream in November 2017. The poster contained a note from Mark Ruffalo explaining that the poster had not yet been released, and Holland was supposed to keep it a secret. Ironically, Holland had already showed the poster to the camera and read the message out loud before discovering a large sign on the back that read "CONFIDENTIAL, DO NOT SHARE." However, this seems like a deliberate set-up from the studio, as both Holland and Ruffalo are known for revealing too many secrets about past Marvel films. Plus, it lined up too conveniently with the release date of the first trailer.  , 
    Third movie in which Rocket Raccoon has a fascination with prosthetic limbs. In Guardians of the Galaxy a prosthetic leg, in Guardians of the Galaxy Volume 2 a prosthetic eye, and in Infinity War another eye and Bucky's new prosthetic arm.  , 
    Robert Downey, Jr.'s other recurring role is Sherlock Holmes. In his previous outings as Iron Man, he worked with two Dr. Watsons: Sir Ben Kingsley and Martin Freeman. In this film, he finally works with fellow Sherlock actor, Benedict Cumberbatch. The Russo brothers deliberately did not include a Sherlock joke between the actor's characters, deeming it "too obvious."  , 
    Rocket calls the outriders "space dogs." This line was written after a focus group saw one of the test screenings: one of the viewers referred to the creatures as "space dogs." The filmmakers thought it was hilarious and decided to add it to the film.  , 
    The film crossed worldwide Box Office collection of $1 Billion in a record time of 11 days after its release. This is the sixth Marvel movie to make this much.  , 
    This film is based on the American comic book series called 'The Infinity Gauntlet' first published by Marvel Comics in 1991, but takes its name from the sequel comic book series called 'The Infinity War', which its self has a sequel series 'The Infinity Crusade'.  , 
    On 1 March 2018, as North America was approaching the May 5 release of the film, Marvel Studios announced that Infinity War would release worldwide one week earlier, on 27 April 2018. The move comes from The Walt Disney Company's decision to let Avengers: Infinity War have more time in the spotlight, before Disney and Lucasfilm release Solo: A Star Wars Story on 25 May 2018.  , 
Natalie Portman announced she will not star in the film as Dr. Jane Foster, and that she will not be involved in any future Marvel comic book films. Portman had signed on to do Thor: The Dark World (2013), and was apparently unhappy when director Patty Jenkins was replaced by Alan Taylor. She did not appear in Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015) and Thor: Ragnarok (2017) for the same reason.  , 
    All three Marvel Cinematic Universe phases have referenced either an Infinity Stone or the Infinity Gauntlet with two stones making their debut within each phase. The Space and Mind Stone first appeared during Phase 1, though they were not revealed to be Infinity Stones until Phase 2.  , 
    The filmmakers wanted to create small physical rules that would allow characters to stay in the fight with Thanos. The idea of Thanos having to close his fist to use a stone was the bare minimum that allowed for a fight to be put up.  , 
    Josh Brolin and Peter Dinklage each appeared in both the Marvel Cinematic Universe (owned by Disney) and the X-Men Universe (owned by FOX). Brolin played Thanos in the MCU and Cable in Deadpool 2 (2018) for FOX. Dinklage played Trask in X-Men: Days of Future Past (2014) and Eitri in Avengers: Infinity War (2018).  , 
    In the comics, The Black Order usually has a fifth member, another female alien named Supergiant with a mind control superpower.  , 
    The filmmakers did not know about the war chants the actors from Black Panther created, as that film was not nearly finished at the time of shooting. Winston Duke had started the chant, which led to the responding war cry that Chadwick Boseman leads.  , 
    Avengers: Infinity War (2018) was released five days before the tenth anniversary of Iron Man (2008), the first movie in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  , 
    Originally the colors of the Infinity Stones were Soul=green, Time=orange, Space=purple, Mind=blue, reality=Yellow and Power=red. In the MCU they share the same colors from the Marvel Legacy version (Soul=orange, Time=green, Space=blue, Mind=yellow, Reality=red and Power=purple).  , 
    The new Iron Man suit is based on Bleeding Edge and later Model-Prime armors from the comics which both uses nanotechnology to create a suit which is linked to Stark and can also create weapons for him to use such as a bigger gun and stored away when not in use, which for the film is inside Stark's new arc reactor on his chest as seen what he taps it with his arm.  , 
    This movie was scheduled to be released exactly six years after the release of The Avengers (2012), but on March 1, 2018, Marvel moved the release date up to April 27.  , 
    James Gunn revealed on Twitter on 4/30/2018 that the name of the Guardians' new ship in this movie is the Benatar.  , 
    Hulk crashing into Doctor Strange's Sanctum Sanctorum is a nod to the comics, where the Silver Surfer is the one to crash through Strange's window and warn of the threat of Thanos.  , 
    Longest Marvel Cinematic Universe film as of April 2018 at 156 minutes, following Captain America: Civil War which was 147 minutes.  , 
    Unlike the previous two "team-up" movies that Marvel has made, no new heroes are introduced in this film. Wanda Maximoff/Scarlet Witch and Vision were introduced in 'Avengers: Age of Ultron' and Spider-Man and Black Panther made their first appearances in 'Captain America: Civil War.' All the heroes from 'The Avengers' appeared in earlier films.  , 
    The filmmakers wanted to explore the idea that these heroes are willing to sacrifice their own lives, but when are they willing to sacrifice somebody else?  , 
    Captain America is wearing the same suit he wore in Civil War. The filmmakers redesigned his outfit to distress and desaturate it. He has ripped the labels off as well. The scales underneath his suit are a nod to Cap's original suit from the comic books.  , 
    Josh Brolin acted this scene with a foam headpiece that was the size of Thanos' head, with a camera on his face for VFX. He also had to wear various foam parts depending on what the scene called for so the other actors didn't get too close to his real body, and so Thanos' scale was retained.  , 
    Directors ANTHONY and JOE RUSSO have confirmed that several Asgardians have escaped Thanos' attack, Valkyrie from Ragnarok being one of them.  , 
    The filmmakers thought of the film as Thanos' hero's journey. That's the way they could figure out how to put everybody in the film.  , 
    The filmmakers wanted Hulk and Banner's relationship to become increasingly dysfunctional, carrying over from his last appearance in Ragnarok. What if Hulk were no longer interested in solving problems for Banner?  , 
    The new Spider-Man suit is based on the Iron Spider outfit from the comics. Like its film counterpart, it was also created by Tony Stark. This is also the first film to have Spider-Man use it, as this costume first appeared at the end of Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017).  , 
    This is the first time that the Guardians of the Galaxy meet the Avengers.  , 
    The filmmakers didn't want the Soul Stone to be somewhere audiences already knew, or to have it be random. They chose to have it be a secret for one of the characters, therefore becoming emotional.  , 
    (at 36:37:00) These scenes between Wanda and Vision were actually shot on location in Edinburgh, Scotland. Edinburgh was chosen because the filmmakers wanted a romantic private place for the two of them to build their relationship that could turn scary and gothic very quickly.  , 
    The filmmakers used the Black Order not only to keep the film from feeling repetitive, but also to keep the heroes from fighting Thanos until the very end.  , 
    Carrie Coon was pregnant while doing the motion-capture and voicework for Proxima Midnight. However, most of Proxima Midnight's fight scenes were performed on-set in a mo-cap suit by stuntwoman Monique Ganderton, who is five inches taller than Carrie Coon.  , 
    Despite being a major character in the film, Chris Evans did not appear during the press tour due to his involvement in the Broadway revival of Lobby Hero. He did, however, appear in a prerecorded bit entitled "The Marvel Bunch" on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon.  , 
    This is the first film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe featuring Tony Stark (Robert Downey Jr.) and James Rhodes (Don Cheadle) in which they do not have any scenes together.  , 
    Thanos is called "Grimace" by Quill at one point. This is a 1970s/1980s reference to the McDonald's advertisement and McDonaldland (1963) character "Hungry Grimace", who was a friendly giant purple blob. In addition to Ronald McDonald, other characters included Hamburglar, Mayor McCheese, and Officer Big Mac. McDonald's began phasing out these characters in the early 2000s.  , 
    Zoe Saldana's second film to earn $2 billion in the worldwide box office, the first being Avatar (2009). She received prominent billing in both films.  , 
    There are close to 3,000 shots in the film, with almost 2,900 of those being VFX shots.  , 
    Tom Holland was working on another film at the same time of the filming of Avengers: Infinity War. The other role required him to have longer hair than he'd previously had as Spider-Man, so he had his stylists incorporate the new length into his look for this film. However, after seeing the final product when the first trailer came out, Holland regretted this decision, saying he looked ridiculous and jokingly compared himself to Prince Charming.  , 
    Drax mentions being able to stand still for hours on end. Drax actor Dave Bautista had to stand for several hours each day getting his makeup applied.  , 
    In August 2016, Vin Diesel confirmed that the Guardians of the Galaxy will appear in the film.  , 
    This is the first film where Lou Ferrigno is not involved in any capacity in the portrayal of the Hulk. He has played the Hulk or provided his voice for the character a record 12 times in movies and television.  , 
    There were certain drafts where more time was spent on Titan before it collapsed, with more backstory on Thanos. In the end, the screenwriters felt this glimpse was all that was needed.  , 
    From the early drafts, the filmmakers knew they wanted to split the Guardians up; much like the idea of "strange alchemy," they couldn't have them functioning as a group the whole time and needed to have them interact with the new players.  , 
    The flip phone to Captain America had a 678 area code phone number. 678 is a US area code for Atlanta, where Infinity War was filmed.  , 
    This marks the first Russo Brothers film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe to not have a score by Henry Jackman. Alan Silvestri, who scored Captain America: The First Avenger (2011) and The Avengers (2012), and composed the Avengers fanfare that has become synonymous with the MCU, took over.  , 
    Natasha Romanoff/ Black Widow (Scarlett Johansson) has sported a different hairstyle in every MCU movie she has appeared in: In Iron Man 2 it was long, curly, and red, in The Avengers it was short and red, in Captain America: the Winter Soldier it was of medium length, straight, and red, in Avengers: Age of Ultron it was short, curly and red (similar to her hairstyle in The Avengers,) in Captain America: Civil War it was long and red, and in Avengers: Infinity war it was short and blonde.  , 
    The giant member of The Black Order, Cull Obsidian, is actually the official name of the entire squad in the comics. He is actually named Black Dwarf (after a Black Dwarf star) and Thanos dubbed them Cull Obsidian, although the group themselves prefers The Black Order.  , 
    The Incredible Hulk has slowly decreased the time between his appearances throughout the twenty-first century, by one year fragments. Eric Bana's Hulk was made in 2003, with the franchise being rebooted five years later with The Incredible Hulk (2008), starring Edward Norton. Four years later, the part was re-cast with Mark Ruffalo now taking over the role in The Avengers (2012). Three years later, Ruffalo reprised his role in Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015), with him then again reprising it in Thor: Ragnarok (2017). One year later, he appeared in Avengers: Infinity War (2018). His appearances in 2003, 2008, 2012, 2015, 2017, and 2018 all decrease one year in between appearances.  , 
    In The Avengers, Thor states that Odin used his dark magic to transport him to and from earth, as the Bifrost was destroyed. Audiences now find out the dark magic came straight from Heimdall, as he uses it to transport Hulk here.  , 
    Rocket carrying around a stolen eye is a callback to a running gag in both Guardians films, as he has always been obsessed with prosthetic body parts.  , 
    There were early drafts of the script where the backstories of the Black Order were explored more. Ultimately, the story was getting too crowded so it was removed. However, Proxima and Corvus were married in the comics, and it is hinted at very slightly by pairing them up, and how she reacts to Corvus getting stabbed.  , 
    This was the second film starring both Chris Hemsworth (Thor) and Tom Holland (Spider-Man), with the first being In the Heart of the Sea (2015).  , 
    The filmmakers had a phrase to describe characters meeting and interacting for the first time that they called "strange alchemy." The conflict of personalities between Tony Stark and Doctor Strange is a perfect example of this.  , 
    Filming was undertaken in Durham Cathedral on May 1, 2017.  , 
    The film's cast includes three Oscar winners: Gwyneth Paltrow, Benicio Del Toro and William Hurt. This movie ties with Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017) and Thor: Ragnarok (2017) in having three Oscar winners featured in a MCU film. However, all three of these actors have no more than a couple minutes of screen time each in this film.  , 
    Thanos's henchman known as the Black Order all have names that have something to do with blackness/darkness. Cull Obsidian which basically means black death. Ebony Maw, roughly dark speaker. Proxima Midnight or among the darkness/of the darkness. Lastly, Corvus Glaive who's name Corvus is the name of the constellation depicting a raven. It's also the name for the genus of birds such as crows and ravens; black birds traditionally associated with death. So his name can be seen as black bird of death. (Glaive refers to his weapon which grants him immortality as long as it isn't destroyed)  , 
    In the bottom right corner of Thanos' field, there is a brief moment where viewers can see a scarecrow made out of his armor. This is an homage to the comic books.  , 
    The filmmakers wanted to show that Tony knows Wanda is on the run with Steve, Vision has been in a relationship with Wanda, and he has been okay with that. They wanted to make it clear that Tony has not been actively seeking to bring Steve, Natasha, Sam, and Wanda to justice.  , 
    The filmmakers worked with director Ryan Coogler and his team from Black Panther as they had maps drawn of the country of Wakanda. They used these maps to better figure out where to place the battle and the strategy that would come into play.  , 
    The Guardians and the Avengers figuring out their plan on Titan was the first scene filmed. It was filmed over the first three days of shooting.  
