[
    Ethan's failure to recite the Charles Bukowski poem was actually Alden Ehrenreich having difficulty remembering the order of the lines and making Alice Englert laugh. He performed the poem perfectly in all other takes. But Director Richard LaGravenese liked the idea of a "Romeo" trying to impress a "Juliet" and screwing up the poetry.   
    In the "snow sequence" the song playing over the scene - "Needle and Thread" - was written and recorded by Alice Englert in her hotel room in New Orleans during pre-production. Director Richard LaGravenese wanted it for the movie.   
    The role of Amma is actually a combination of two roles from the book; Amma a housekeeper/Seer and Marian a librarian and Ethan's late mother's best friend. Screenwriter/director Richard LaGravenese combined the two parts in the hope of attracting a great actress. 'Viola Davis' was his first and only choice for the role.   
    The poetry on the walls and ceiling of Lena's room are sourced from four poets: William Blake Alfred Lord Tennyson Edna St. Vincent Millay and Rumi.   
    The title derives from what Macon Ravenwood thought of the human race in the novel. Macon dresses like a Southern gentleman.   
    In the books Macon Ravenwood is an Incubus ( demon believed to have intercourse with sleeping women ) or a vampire. However in the film he is portrayed as a powerful caster.   
    Director Richard LaGravenese wanted as little green screen as possible. In the Caster holiday dinner sequence the set was built so that the table would spin with the actors on bolted chairs. The floor beneath the table would also spin in the opposite direction with Alice Englert and Emmy Rossum strapped to "parade float" stands. The entire set was built on hydraulics so it could be rocked. On a speed scale of 1 to 10 the actors are spinning at an 8. The sequence took three days to shoot. LaGravenese a victim of motion sickness took Dramamine to direct it.   
    The Caster Chronicles have some nominal similarities to the Twilight Saga e.g. they're both set in a small town; a relationship between a human and a supernatural being; the human drawn into a vampire/witch war with their families etc. But the two series have their differences as well e.g. the novel Beautiful Creatures pointedly says there are no such things as vampires and werewolves both of which appear in the Twilight Saga; Stephenie Meyer promoted chastity and the sanctity of marriage while Beautiful Creatures favours tolerance and understanding of anything different etc.   
    Ethan's father appears in the novel but not the film (J.D. Evermore filmed scenes as Ethan's father though they were deleted during post-production).   
    Jack O'Connell was originally cast as Ethan Wate but was replaced by Alden Ehrenreich right before filming began.   
    Filming in Louisiana was temporarily halted due to a tornado warning.   
    In the film Macon Ravenwood is compared to Boo Radley from the novel To Kill a Mockingbird. When Ethan sneaks into Lena's (and Macon's) house Macon is seen hiding behind a door. In To Kill a Mockingbird Boo Radley is found hiding behind a door in Gem's room after rescuing him.   
    There are several characters from the book that didn't make it into the movie - Macon's wolf/dog Boo Lena's little girl cousin Ryan (who was a healer) Ethan's "Aunt" Marian (her character was combined with Amma) Ethan's great aunts (Prue Grace etc..) and his Father. These characters play significant roles in the novel.   
    The original score is the first composed by the band Thenewno2 - Dhani Harrison Paul Hicks and 'Jonathon Sadoff'. The band began creating the score at Friar Park Studios Henley-on-Thames. The guitar solo on the love theme at the burning Gatlin sign is the same guitar used in (Dhani's father) George Harrison's "While My Guitar Gently Weeps". The score was recorded at Abbey Road in Studio 2.   
    The second film to feature both Viola Davis and Thomas Mann after 2010's It's Kind of a Funny Story (2010).   
    In the sequence at the movies a cartoon is shown briefly on the movie house screen. The music accompanying this was used as the theme to BBC News bulletins in the 1970's.   
    In the second installment of the "Beautiful Creatures" book series "Beautiful Darkness". While attempting to aid Ethan in saving Lena Ethan's best friend Link sums up what they will be up against. To which Link ends with "... and last I checked Han Solo wasn't around". In 2018 Alden Ehrenreich who stars as Ethan Wate in the movie adaptation of "Beautiful Creatures" will Star in Disney's "Solo: A Star Wars Story" as Han Solo.   
    Screenwriter/director Richard LaGravenese who adapted his own novel for the screenplay wrote the novel in response to his teenage children's desire to see a supernatural teenage love story that didn't involve sparkly vampires (as in Twilight (2008)).   
    In the scene where Ethan is climbing down from Lena's window Lena says "Jerk" And Ethan responds "Witch" A possible nod to The CW series Supernatural where Sam (Jared Paddalleki) is constantly saying "Jerk" And Dean (Jensen Ackles) replies with "B**ch".   
    All the caster's have different types of basic caster powers. Lena is a Natural (can control the elements but her powers are virtually limitless) Ridley is a Siren (can control and influence people especially males) Sarafine is a Cataclyst (a Natural except dark) Aunt Del is a Palimpsest (someone who reads time) Gramma is an Empath (can copy another casters powers for a short time) Genevieve was also a Natural/Cataclyst and Macon has a form of telepathy among other things.   
    Despite getting top billing as Ridley Duchannes Emmy Rossum's screen time amounts to barely 15 minutes.  ]
