[
    Because Woody Allen doesn't get into motivation or background of a character when he's directing actors Cate Blanchett and Sally Hawkins got together and invented the background for the sisters' relationship. So every scene when they talked about their past although it's vague on the script and for the viewer they both knew exactly what the sisters are talking about.   
    Costume designer Suzy Benzinger had a budget of only 35000. The Hermès bag that Jasmine carries was worth more than the entire budget and was borrowed as were most of the designer outfits.   
Cate Blanchett (Jasmine Francis) studied the 60 Minutes (1968) interview with Ruth Madoff the wife of disgraced Wall Street swindler Bernie Madoff to emulate certain vocal inflections and body language that Ruth displayed in order to capture the essence of a woman whose once wealthy and privileged world comes crumbling down around her.   
    The storyline is loosely based upon the 1947 play "A Streetcar named Desire" by Tennessee Williams.   
    In Sophia Loren's memoir "Yesterday Today & Tomorrow: My Life" the screen legend reveals that she still absorbs inspiration from other actors to enhance her own acting portrayals saying "Recently I was struck by the last scene in Blue Jasmine (2013) where Cate Blanchett has an expression on her face I'd never seen before. That expression crept inside me and it lies there waiting to germinate a new plant a new flower."   
Cate Blanchett and Sally Hawkins were the only members of the cast to have the complete script during filming. This is not surprising given that Woody Allen tends to keep his story lines secret even from the cast.   
Louis C.K. originally auditioned for the role of Augie eventually played by Andrew Dice Clay. Woody Allen felt that C.K. was too nice to play the role and offered him the role of Al Munsinger instead.   
    Dr. Flicker the dentist and employer of Jasmine in the movie is a recurring character in Allen's films. Most notably he is Alvy Singer's childhood doctor featured in the first flashback of Annie Hall (1977).   
    This is the only Woody Allen film in which two principal American characters are played by non-natives: Australian Cate Blanchett and British Sally Hawkins.   
    The character of Jasmine Francis (Cate Blanchett) is based on Ruth Madoff wife of Wall Street swindler Bernie Madoff. After Madoff's Ponzi scheme collapsed in 2008 he was sent to prison. Ruth Madoff moved to Boca Raton Florida where she lived in a condo with her sister Joan Ramon and Ramon's husband both of whom had been victims of Bernie Madoff's swindle. After losing millions Ramon and her husband were operating a car service to make ends meet. Also like Jasmine Ruth Madoff became estranged from her two sons who had reported their father's Ponzi scheme to the SEC. While one of her sons Mark committed suicide in 2011 Ruth eventually reconciled with her other son Andrew and he provided a house for her to live in Old Greenwich Connecticut.   
    After Cassandra's Dream (2007) this was Sally Hawkins' second collaboration with Woody Allen. She received a total of 25 award nominations for her performance in this film including her first Oscar nomination.   
    After Alice (1990) and To Rome with Love (2012) this is the third Woody Allen film in which Alec Baldwin appears.   
    Many critics believe that the film is a reimagining of Tennessee Williams' play A Streetcar Named Desire. Coincidentally Cate Blanchett and Alec Baldwin have both appeared in productions of the play. Blanchett played Blanche in a 2009 revival by the Sydney Theatre Company while Baldwin played Stanley in the 1992 Broadway revival. Baldwin also went on to play Stanley in the 1995 film adaptation of the play alongside Jessica Lange as Blanche.   
Woody Allen's third film with a 2.35:1 aspect ratio after Manhattan (1979) and Anything Else (2003). Unlike those films which were shot with anamorphic lenses this was shot with spherical lenses in Super 35.   
Bradley Cooper was considered for a role but he dropped out due to scheduling conflicts.   
    The only non-Best Picture nominee for the year to be nominated for Best Original Screenplay.   
    Jasmine Francis (Cate Blanchett) mentions the Masters golf tournament. One of the holes at Augusta National where the Masters tournament is played is named Yellow Jasmine.   
    On-screen father and son Alec Baldwin and Alden Ehrenreich both share a role with Harrison Ford. Baldwin played Jack Ryan in The Hunt for Red October (1990) a role taken over by Ford in Patriot Games (1992). Ehrenreich appears in the forthcoming Han Solo film.  ]
