[
Sylvester Stallone's character is named James "Jimmy Bobo" Bonomo. In Oscar (1991) Stallone's character talked about his first job working for James "Jumpin' Jimmy" Bonomo. In both movies Stallone has a daughter named Lisa and both films include hitmen as central characters.   
Thomas Jane was brought into the project by original director Wayne Kramer. When Kramer left the project Jane suggested Sylvester Stallone to hire Walter Hill. After Hill took over directorial duties Joel Silver came on board the project and fired Jane because he wanted an ethnic guy for the other lead role. Sung Kang was subsequently cast.   
Christian Slater's first major role in a theatrical film since Alone in the Dark (2005).   
    The red automatic knife is a Microtech Halo.   
    Producer Joel Silver's contract with Warner Bros. - who were distributing the picture - was about to come to an end when Bullet to the Head was in post-production. The relationship between the studio and Silver had deteriorated after Silver accused Warner of botching the release of Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows (2011).   
    When in the car on the way to the party in search of Baptiste one of the pictures on the phone are of Sylvester Stallone as John Rambo in First Blood (1982).   
    This was Sylvester Stallone's worst opening weekend gross in 32 years and his second-lowest opening weekend gross of all time.   
Sylvester Stallone and Walter Hill performed uncredited re-writes on the screenplay.   
Wayne Kramer was originally hired to direct in February 2011. After clashing with Sylvester Stallone over the tone of the film he left the production and was replaced by Walter Hill on April 11 2011. Kramer's version was much darker than Stallone wanted.   
    The snap shots of Jimmy Bobo are photos of a young Sylvester Stallone.   
    Not screened in advance for critics.   
Walter Hill's first film since Undisputed (2002).   
Walter Hill told Sylvester Stallone "to play things more casually. I wanted him to play his natural personality as much as possible. He's a very engaging guy. I told him "I'm not interested in you inventing a character as much as imagining yourself as character." He went right with that."   
Walter Hill said he wanted to have fun with the genre:"We're not breaking new ground. We're trying to be entertaining within a format that's familiar. There's a kind of ice skating that goes on where you must let the audience know that you're not taking yourself too seriously. But at the same time the jokes are funny but the bullets are real. The jeopardy has to be real. When it gets outlandish there needs to be no drift into parody - self-parody maybe inevitable for old directors".   
Walter Hill said the film would be called a "buddy movie" but that he made "anti-buddy movies".   
    An executive attached to the film has said "This movie is exactly the type of fast-paced universally themed project that suits our business model. Sylvester Stallone is an international icon and we're really excited to be in business with him."   
    The producing team previously produced I Am Number Four (2011).   
    The film's working title was Headshot.   
    Shortly before the film's release many trade and industry publications published stories that the studio had taken the final cut away from director Walter Hill and they had given the film to Sylvester Stallone to make an all new cut. Hill and Stallone have both denied the story.   
    This is the first movie for Brian Van Holt since House of Wax (2005).  ]
