[
    This is the first screen adaptation where Carrie is played by an actual teenager. Chloë Grace Moretz was 15 during filming whereas Sissy Spacek and Angela Bettis who played the role in Carrie (1976) and Carrie (2002) respectively were 26 and 28 when they played Carrie.   
    In the pig farm scene Billy Nolan (played by Alex Russell) kisses the sledgehammer before killing the pig. Alex Russell actually got sick after this because there were pig droppings on the sledgehammer.   
    Because Chloë Grace Moretz was a minor she was limited to 8 hours of work per day. Many of Julianne Moore's scenes where she was interacting with Moretz's character (who was not in frame) were shot with director Kimberly Peirce subbing for Moretz.   
    There's one detail of the prom scene in the novel that's not present in any of the films: Carrie actually stumbles off the stage and flees outside before she begins tearing the school apart with her powers which she does by watching everyone through the window. In each film version (the 1976 2002 and 2013) the film makers' chose to have Carrie standing on the stage above her classmates when she began attacking everyone in the room.   
    The rocks that rain at the end of the film were real. Stunt doubles were used so as not to harm the real actresses.   
    It was an especially hot day with temperatures lingering around 103 degrees when they shot the scene in which the girls exercise on the football field and director Kimberly Peirce worried that the cast was going to collapse from the heat.   
    Originally the film was slated to begin with a scene from the novel in which a young Carrie wandered into the yard next door and found her teenage neighbor sunbathing. Margaret flies out of their home in a rage and scoops up Carrie who throws a tantrum and summons a rain of stones. This prologue was also shot for Carrie (1976) and wound up being deleted from both versions.   
    The gas station explosion was done practically and Chloë Grace Moretz was then inserted into the shots.   
Chloë Grace Moretz had admitted to not having seen any previous incarnation of Carrie prior to this film and ultimately decided not to so as to create her own spin on the character and not try to copy Sissy Spacek or Angela Bettis.   
    To prepare her for the role director Kimberly Peirce sent star Chloë Grace Moretz to homeless shelters to meet people who had genuinely lived tough lives.   
    The producers communicated with Stephen King but he did not actively consult on the film.   
Sissy Spacek who played the title role in the original Carrie (1976) was humorously considered for the role of Margaret White.   
Kimberly Peirce stated that they used about 1000 gallons of fake blood. With about 50 tests hair and makeup for Chloë Grace Moretz and everything else. Chloë also said in an interview that she worked in the blood for about three months.   
    In the novel Margaret listens to the Tennessee Ernie Ford song "Let the Lower Lights Be Burning." Director Kimberly Peirce always planned to use the song but when she discovered Julianne Moore could sing she also had her croon the hymn. Moore's rendition was both in the film and prominently featured in the ad campaign.   
    There is a petition for the release of an extended/directors cut of this film. Fans feel that this would be a new adaption of the novel (as the final version of the film borrowed elements from the 1976 version) if they add in the scenes that were excised. Some of the scenes include: The White Commission Sue Snell's video diary Extended scenes and more social media elements (Facebook messaging etc.).This information was given out by audience members who attended test screenings of the film and the cast and crew of the film. Supposedly there are 45 minutes of never before seen along with several alternate endings. This original cut was reportedly going to be released on its original release date of March 2013 before being massively re-edited during post-production and being pushed back to October 2013 to coincide with Halloween.   
    Film debut for Ansel Elgort.   
    It was Julianne Moore's idea for her character Margaret White to have graying hair.   
    Production was running over schedule and they were faced with abandoning the scene in which Carrie goes into a shop and finds fabric for her prom dress but director Kimberly Peirce was adamant that it be filmed. The scene was shot quickly from one angle with no additional coverage.   
Lindsay Lohan was considered for the role of Carrie White being suggested by Stephen King himself due to the fact that she looked similar to Sissy Spacek.   
    For the shattered mirror scene the filmmakers tried to shoot it practically with the shards of glass being manipulated by wires. The results were unsatisfactory so they employed CGI.   
Kimberly Peirce did not want to think of the film as a remake of the original film but instead as a different adaptation of the same novel she saw it as an opportunity to do something different. She wanted to really develop Chris Hargenson as a villain.   
Brian Cranstone (on set carpenter) Emma Tamblyn (production assistant: costume department) Jordan Samuel (makeup department head) Peter P. Nicolakakos (set decorator) and Susan Reilly LeHane (makeup artist for Julianne Moore) all appear on the prom ballots in the film.   
    As part of the promotion for the upcoming Halloween release of the film a telekinetic coffee shop surprise prank was set up with stuntmen and actors to terrify unaware customers with a girl with "ESP" (the actual prank video is included on the DVD/Blu-ray release of the film).   
Shailene Woodley turned down the role of Carrie White while Haley Bennett Emily Browning Lily Collins and Bella Heathcote auditioned. Hailee Steinfeld was considered for the role as well.   
    The poem Carrie reads from in English class is an excerpt from John Milton's 1671 poem "Samson Agonistes (Samson the Wrestler)".   
    While billed as a new adaptation of the novel many screenplay elements were borrowed from Lawrence D. Cohen's adaptation of the 1976 film.   
Jodie Foster was considered to play Margaret White. Julianne Moore had stepped into a role written for Foster once before in Hannibal (2001).   
    The aspiration from the beginning was to make a classic horror film that has real characters and not just shock scares.   
    From the beginning the studio was committed to making an R-rated film.   
    This is the first version where Chris Hargensen the leader of Carrie's bullies has brunette hair. In the first two film versions (1976 and 2002) she is a blonde. In the novel she is said to have brown hair.   
    Upon the release of Carrie into theaters many fans of both the novel and the 1976 film criticized the casting choice of Chloe Moretz in the role of Carrie White. In the novel Carrie is described as a "homely acne-ridden slightly overweight girl with stringy mousy hair and small eyes dressed in outdated modest clothing and toting a copy of the Bible". Moretz looked nothing like this in the role. On the other hand many people also praised Moretz for bringing an atmosphere of modernity to the story.   
    When casting the film producer Kevin Misher was looking for a group of young actors that were on the threshold of breaking out.   
Chloë Grace Moretz describes the film as a darker more twisted version that focuses on the mother-daughter relationship.   
    When approaching the telekinetic powers Kimberly Peirce went through the script page by page and gave a number rating from 1-10 for the level of Carrie's powers during the telekinesis sequences.   
    When Kimberly Peirce started collaborating with Chloë Grace Moretz she told her that she needed to set off a teenage rebellion in her life because the role of Carrie called for her to be a young adult.   
    Unlike the 1976 original film and 2002 remake Carrie has a slight ability of Pyrokinesis shown when she burns a crack in the closet door and fuses the slide lock on the closet door to keep her mother locked in. Also in the novel she is able to cause it to rain rocks when she is distressed but in this version she is able to create Earthquakes meaning she has a more developed power of Geokenisis. She also has Technopathy which is shown in when she turns lights in the gym on and off; she also had this power in the 2002 version.   
Megan Fox showed interest for the role of Carrie White.   
    Carrie's teacher (when Carrie reads her poem) has the same last name as Stuart Ullman from "The Shining" another Stephen King novel adapted into a film.   
    Ahead of release one of the most frequent question raised in forums (and in IMDb's own FAQ section) centered on if the well-known shower scene would be as explicit as in the 1976 film.   
    Cynthia Preston who plays Eleanor Snell shares a birthday with Priscilla Pointer who played the exact same role in the original film.   
    The film was delayed from March 15 2013 to October 18 2013; Chloë Grace Moretz has stated that the reason was to add scarier scenes most likely Margaret giving birth to Carrie. However many also believe that another major reason was because of the Sandy Hook shooting that occurred on December 2012. It is also believed that the film's violence was heavily edited and cut for the same reason.   
    The film was considered to be a "found footage" type but Kimberly Peirce decided not to she believes it would have been too distracting for the character of Carrie.   
    The characters Heather Nicki and Lizzy are an assemblage of characters Helen Shyres The Thibodeau sisters Norma Watson and The Wilson Sisters. These are characters from both the film and novel. Despite Heather primarily being inspired by Helen however the prom ballots reveal that Helen Shyres exists as a separate character primarily as an extra in the film.   
    The visual effects team planned a lot of intricate sequences for some of the film's deaths including filming at 1000 frames-per-second and stopping time.   
    The character Fern Mayo in Jawbreaker (1999) played by Judy Greer was inspired by Sissy Spacek's role of Carrie White. This is overtly alluded to when Fern figures out ways to take down Courtney at the prom jokingly suggesting they go to the slaughter house and get a bucket of pig's blood. Greer portrays Ms. Desjardin in the 2013 Carrie remake.   
    The only adaptation of the novel not to feature character Norma Watson. In the original film she filled in for Tina Blake who was relegated to the background as an extra as Chris's best friend and secondary antagonist; in the TV film she serves the role that she has from the novel.   
    In this adaptation Chris Hargensen is intentionally made up to look overtanned with too much makeup and ratty hair extensions this was done to suggest that Chris might be subconsciously or secretly jealous of Carrie's more natural beauty.   
    "Carrie" is one of several characters in Stephen King novels (usually female) with mental powers. The others are "Firestarter" "The Shining" and its sequel "Doctor Sleep".   
    In the shower scene for this film it's not as explicit as the 1976 film and there's no nudity for any of the girls. The 2002 TV movie also didn't feature nudity because it was restricted by network censorship while in this film it's justified by Chloë Grace Moretz being only 15-16 at the time of filming and being unable to legally film any nudity.   
Kimberly Peirce took a page out of King's novel when it came to the film's tone as she wanted to balance the horror with humor.   
    Even though there were rumors that Carrie would be released in IMAX IMAX confirmed on a Facebook message that they did not have any plans for that.   
Ivana Baquero was considered to play Chris Hargensen but Portia Doubleday was cast.   
    Alex Russell starred in Chronicle (2012) another film about a teenager who discovers they have telekinetic abilities.   
    This is the second time Chloë Grace Moretz has played a character named Carrie. The first was Carrie Fuller in Big Momma's House 2 (2006).   
Portia Doubleday portrays Chris Hargensen the ringleader of Carrie's bullies. Doubleday is also the name of the American publishing company which first published Stephen King's novel "Carrie" in April 1974.   
    Zoë Belkin Demetrius Joyette Jefferson Brown Philip Nozuka Kyle Mac and Max Topplin all appear on Degrassi: The Next Generation (2001).   
    Chloë Grace Moretz and Ansel Elgort would go on to star in November Criminals (2016).   
    Vanessa Smythe Irene Poole Skyler Wexler Kim Roberts William MacDonald Michelle Nolden and Ally Feliciano all had supporting roles in the film as Young Estelle Horan Estelle's Mother Young Carrie Ms. Arlene Walsh Sheriff Otis Doyle Older Estelle Parsons and a Mean Girl respectively though their scenes ended up on the cutting room floor.   
    Although it was a minor subplot in the book (it is mentioned twice) this is the first Carrie film to mention the possibility of Sue being pregnant. However the marked difference is that in the film Sue actually is pregnant and Carrie can even tell her the sex. In the novel however Sue only suspected she was and this was proven wrong when she finally had her period startlingly right at the end of the novel after seeing Carrie die thus outlining the symbolic theme of blood that King had throughout his story.   
    Margaret White originally died by having Carrie telekinetically stop her heart just like in the novel and 2002 adaptation. The scene was reshot to recreate her original death scene from the 1976 film as it was decided that the original version of the scene was not violent enough.   
    The first film version to show Carrie acknowledge that Tommy Ross had died after being hit on the head with the bucket.   
    In the novel Carrie and Sue speak to each other again after the disastrous prom in a powerful scene in which Sue convinces Carrie she wished her no harm and holds her while she dies. However this event does not play out exactly like the book in any of the film versions: in the original 1976 film Sue and Carrie never speak again and Sue goes into a mental breakdown after returning home which is described in the sequel The Rage: Carrie 2. In the 2002 version Sue actually saves Carrie from drowning in her tub drives her to another state and coolly pretends she never saw her after returning to town. And in this version Sue finds Carrie in her house with her dead mother and Carrie faces her aggressively lifting her off the ground and then finding by use of her power that Sue's pregnant. After exchanging some words and persuading Carrie she did not mean to hurt her Carrie flings Sue out of the house before it crumbles to the ground and Sue goes on to testify in defense of Carrie's character in court.   
    When Carrie reads the poem "Samson Agonistes" its final line "all in flames ascended" read by her foreshadows the prom massacre closing where she levitates (ascends) in the midst of Hell.   
    When using her telekinetic powers during the climax Carrie aggressively moves her arms uses hand gestures as well as displays enraged facial reactions as a command to her powers which is in stark contrast to Carrie (1976) and Carrie (2002) where she simply stands stoic as if in a trance while using the power.   
    In the alternative ending as Sue's mother is trying to calm Sue down there is a subliminal image that appears of Carrie in her blood covered dress and holding Sue's infant. The scene has to be watched frame by frame to spot it.   
    The only version that gives Chris Hargensen a real death scene separate from her boyfriend Billy Nolan. In all three versions they die in the car but in this version Billy dies first by smashing his face into the steering wheel whereas Carrie lifts the car and sends Chris through the windshield face first into the gas station which she then blows up.   
    Wanting to end the film with a big scare and not to repeat the grave moment from the 1976 film Kimberly Peirce was inspired by Lars von Trier''s miniseries Riget (1994) to shoot a scene where a character is giving birth and things go wrong. According to Pierce the executives were really nervous about that moment because they wanted to avoid showing a vagina as much as they could. Finally Pierce shot the scene which did not end up in the movie only as a bonus feature on the Blu-ray edition.   
Kimberly Peirce said in the Blu-Ray commentary that she wanted each of the deaths of Carrie's bullies in the prom to match themselves. Chris Hargensen is a narcissistic person so ultimately she ended up ruining her face by smashing it through the car windshield. Same goes for Tina who is set on fire by Carrie. The twins were trampled after being thrown to the ground as they tried to be popular through friendship with Chris and are literally walked all over by the crowd. Heather is the first victim of the prom massacre and has her face violently smashed against the doors glass window as she befriended Chris to avoid being bullied by her.   
    The scene where Tina is set on fire the stunt double was really set on fire. Kimberly Peirce explains in the special features that she tried other methods but did not look correct. Her stunt double team had a gel that she covered the stunt double with and it helped her not getting injured.   
    The only film version where Tina is not the first one to be killed in the prom scene. In this film Carrie kills all the other girls before electrocuting Tina with cables and sending her into a fire.   
    Body Count: 12 - Tommy Ross Tina Blake Jackie Talbott Kenny Garson Heather Nicki and Lizzy Freddy "Beak" Holt Chris Hargensen Billy Nolan Margaret White and Carrie White (presumably). Tommy is killed when the bucket hits his head Tina is whipped by electric cables and set on fire by Carrie Jackie is crushed and bisected when he is caught in the bleachers Kenny's foot is crushed by the bleachers and presumably falls to his death Heather's face is smashed against the glass window of the gym doors trying to escape the twins Nicki and Lizzy are trampled to death Freddy is slammed into a flying table Chris has her face smashed through the car window before slowly dying Billy's nose is crushed on his steering wheel Margaret is stabbed to death with several flying knives and Carrie presumably dies underneath the falling rubble of her house.   
    During the prom rampage when Carrie lifts Ms. Desjardin off the floor to throw her on the stage she's actually saving her life since she also throws sparking electric cables into the pool of water where the teacher had been standing.   
    This is the second "Carrie" film to have the teacher spared instead of killed. In the 1976 version the teacher dies; however in both this and the 2002 version she is spared.   
    Both the 1976 and 2013 versions of the film have different endings than the original novel. In the original novel the Prom Massacre caused by Carrie results in a heavy crackdown by the Federal Government on bullying as well as a woman commenting through a letter that her children are levitating blocks remarking how it is a power her family had basically implying that the family at the end loves their children (unlike Margaret who despised Carrie because she was a reminder that she had been raped by her husband) and will raise them far better than Carrie was raised and treated in her life. However both the films and the original novel don't reveal the ultimate fate of Carrie White.  ]
