[
    Director Josh Trank made Dane DeHaan Michael B. Jordan and Alex Russell live in a house together for fifteen days in order to create a genuine bond between the three actors.   
    The pink-haired girl played by Anna Wood whom Andrew was making out with was Dane DeHaan's (Andrew) wife in real life.   
    The film has no original score only using sources such as radio and iPods to generate music.   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2010 Blacklist a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
    The original story would have the trio becoming psychopaths because of their powers but it was soon changed as it was too dark and also would not really make sense to the plot.   
    Chronicle (2012) was originally meant to be a hard R or NC-17 rated film but there were fears that it would lose audiences.   
    Chronicle (2012) was inspired by various comic books and superhero movies. After the film's release cast members Dane DeHaan and Michael B. Jordan went on to star in big-budget superhero films. DeHaan played Harry Osborn/Green Goblin in The Amazing Spider-Man 2 (2014) and Jordan went on to play Johnny Storm in Fantastic Four (2015) as well as a villain in The Black Panther   
    The song "This Bright Flash" by M83 that plays during the end credits features only one line of lyrics "I killed all the rainbows and the species."   
    Director Josh Trank revealed that Miles Teller auditioned for a role. Teller would be cast as Reed Richards/Mister Fantastic in Fantastic Four (2015) which Trank also directed.   
    The filmmakers originally intended to have Andrew splay and tear apart his father's limbs exactly like the spider's but the scene was removed to preserve a PG-13 rating and to showcase Matt's pacifistic nature.   
    At the beginning of the film where the main character is filming into his bedroom to the left of the mirror is a drawing which gives away the ending of the film.   
    During the high school talent show Andrew walks on to the stage through a stylized painting of The Cave of Wonders from Disney's Aladdin (1992). This is meant to represent the mysterious cave where the trio received their powers.  ]
