[
    For the pickle voices actors gargled water as they read their lines.   
    There were one hundred twenty "foodimals" made for the movie but only thirty-nine made it to the final film. One of the foodimals that didn't make the movie was a fire-breathing Tyrannosaurus Rex S'more Monster with a marshmallow body graham cracker mouth and chocolate teeth. However this "foodimal" appeared during the end credits sequence.   
Terry Crews replaced Mr. T as the voice of Earl Devereaux from Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (2009). Mr. T was asked to voice the character for the sequel but declined. Many of Devereaux's body and facial expressions in the sequel were based on Crews' on-screen presence.   
    The animators also added an "Easter Egg" hidden fruit which can be seen several times in the movie. It's name is Sasquash and is shaped like a hairy gourd.   
    Sam Sparks' outfit when she returns to Swallow Falls is the same as Laura Dern's character in Jurassic Park (1993).   
    Berry is voiced by Director Cody Cameron.   
    The original title of Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (2009) was "Revenge of the Leftovers".   
    Director Cody Cameron created food animals out of clay to help with the look of the "foodimals".   
    The Cheespider has two hundred three eyes.   
    The foodimals (food animals) in this movie include: Fruit Cockatiel (made of several fruits) Kiwi Bird (bird made of a kiwi body and whole kiwi-sliced eyes) Hippotatomus (potato with a hippo-like body butter slice tongue and chive teeth) Peanut Butter and Jellyfish Sandwich (peanut butter and jelly with jelly tentacles) Shrimpanzee (shrimp with a chimpanzee form) Cheespider (cheeseburgers in the form of a spider) Jellybee (bee of jelly) Mosquitoast (toasted bread in the form of the mosquitoes with raisin eyes and cinnamon stick beaks) Bananostrich (bananas with the characteristics of ostriches) Flamango (mangoes with the characteristics of flamingos) Watermelophant (watermelons in the form of an elephant) Subwhales (whales made of sub sandwiches) Lemmongs (lemon lemmings) Susheep (sushi in the form of sheep) Butter Frog (in the Syrup Fog on Lily Padpancakes) Apple Piethon (sliced apple pie-headed snakes with licorice bodies and candy filled Tic-Tac-like boxes at the end of their tails. When their head-slices come together they create a whole pie) Tacodile Supreme (Crocodile with the head and body made of tacos) Wildebeet (beet in the shape of an antelope) Jurassic Scallion (a scallion in the shape of a herbivore giant) Meatbalrus (meatball bodied walrus with short pasta whiskers and bow-tie past feet and breaded tusks) Buffaloaf (buffalo meatloaf with onion ring horns) Crabcake (crab of birthday cake) Eggplanatee (eggplant in the form of a manatee) Cucumbirdy (a flying cucumber bird) and many more.   
    WILHELM SCREAM: (At around fifteen minutes) Two of them are heard when Flint Lockwood's Party-in-a-Box goes off during an Inventor Presentation.   
    According to co-Director Kris Pearn "Chester V" is a composite of blue jean billionaires like Steve Jobs and Richard Branson. The "food bar 8.0" is for example a reference to the iPhone models.   
    The gang sails from "Sunny San Franjose California" to Swallow Falls which as we learned in the first one is a tiny island under the "A" in Atlantic Ocean. They sailed around North America during the duration of "99 buckets of Chum on the boat".   
    (At around fifty-two minutes) When the gang is searching for the FLDSMDFR while "Yummy Yummy Yummy" is playing you can see the Swallow Falls resident with a piece of macaroni stuck on his head floating on an intertube behind the meatbalruses.   
    (At around twenty-five minutes) When Tim blows the fog horn at the dock prior to leaving for the island it spooks Brent into laying an egg. It quickly falls off of the dock.   
Will Forte and Kristen Schaal appeared in The Last Man on Earth (2015).   
    Sony Animation's second theatrically released sequel.   
    Benjamin Bratt (Manny) and Kristen Schaal (Barb) provided voices in Despicable Me 2 (2013). Bratt played Eduardo (El Macho) and Schaal played Shannon.   
    Earl was voiced by Terry Crews in this movie. In the first movie he was voiced by Mr. T.   
Neil Patrick Harris' fourth Sony Animation film after Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (2009) The Smurfs (2011) and The Smurfs 2 (2013).   
Bill Hader's third animated film of 2013 after Monsters University (2013) and Turbo (2013).   
    Adam Samberg's third Sony Animation film after Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (2009) and Hotel Transylvania (2012).   
    Most of the features on Chester V's sentinels of safety are designs stolen from Flint Lockwood's inventions he made while working at Live Corp.   
Will Forte played a character named Joe Towne. In this movie he played Chester V.   
    Bill Hader (Flint Lockwood) Andy Samberg (Steve Lockwood) and Terry Crews (Earl Devereaux) have also acted together in Brooklyn Nine-Nine (2013-)   
    (At around twenty-one minutes) Just after Chester hands Flint the "BS-USB" in the Live Corp Headquarters the animal on the wall looks over at them while Chester is talking.   
    (At around twenty-six minutes) On the boat as Flint is explaining his plan to the gang. During the presentation when the explosion happens a tune from Puckman (1980) plays the tune is the "Game Over" tune.   
    The "BS-USB" has a hidden meaning inside its naming which is emphasized by Chester V when Flint finds out the BS-USB reprogram's the FLDSMDFR. "BS" is the acronym for "Bull Shit".   
    Despite the name of Swallow Falls being changed to Chew and Swallow in the first movie nobody in this movie ever addresses it as Chew and Swallow.   
    At the end of the first film Flint sprayed his spray-on shoes on the bottom of the FLDSMFR and it exploded but at the beginning of this movie there is no spray on the bottom of the FLDSMFR (indicating a change since the explosion).   
    Running gag: Flint getting his big nose stuck in various doors.   
    (At around one hour and nine minutes) When Flint's walking television is saying N-woo as the name that the food animals know him by that was footage that Manny didn't actually record. Manny doesn't start recording until Sam tells him that now he is gonna make the food and get this on tape.   
    At the end of the first film when Flint got dropped off by the Rat Birds the explosion burned off half of his hair but at the beginning of this movie Flint's hair has grown back.   
    Manny says "¡Ay Caramba" much like the catchphrase on The Simpsons (1989).   
    Ryan Reynolds were considered for the role of Chester V.   
    Maya Rudolph were considered for the role of Barb.   
    Bill Hader Andy Smaberg and Will Forte all starred on Saturday Night Live at the same time and became good friends while they were there.    
    (At around one hour) Live spelled backwards is Evil giving an early hint that Live Corp is evil.  ]
