[
    When Lucy and Gru are reviewing Paradise Mall shop owners (suspects) the owner of Stuff-A-Bear (a satire of Build-A-Bear) overstuffs a bear and it explodes making an expectant little boy cry. The boy is the same one that Gru made cry with a popping balloon in the beginning of the first Despicable Me (2010).   
    When Lucy Wilde gives Gru a phone number to reach her it is clearly visible as 626-584-5723. Calling that number reaches a recording of Kristen Wiig in character with her outgoing voice mail message. However the voicemail box is full and you cannot hear her recording.   
    One of the Minions calls the 21 fart gun salute for Dr. Nefario by saying "Pado" which is the Hindi word for fart.   
    The actors are filmed the entire time they read their parts. Their facial and hand expressions are used on screen. Steve Carell's wife had fun pointing out the expressions in Gru that reminded her of Steve.   
    When Gru first visits his Minions in the underground workshop several Minions can be seen taking a break and eating lunch on top of a cross beam. This is an homage to the famous "Lunch atop a Skyscraper" photograph from 1932 by Charles C.Ebbet.   
    When the minions are fruit stomping to the left one is giving CPR to another.   
    When Silas Ramsbottom shows Gru a video of a rabbit being injected with mutation serum the name tag of the scientists in the video read "COFFIN" and "RENAUD" - a reference to directors Pierre Coffin and Christopher Renaud.   
Kristen Wiig is the only returning cast member from the first film to play a different character - Miss Hattie - in the first Despicable Me (2010) and Lucy Wilde in this film.   
    On Gru's phone three quick-dial buttons can be seen--two yellow and one red. The yellow ones say "Dave" and "Stuart" while the red one says "Mom."   
    The start of the film features yellow-jacketed humans speaking a foreign language. This is a reference to the original design for Despicable Me (2010)'s minions - the iconic shortened shape came about as a result of a low budget for the first film.   
Al Pacino was set to play Eduardo and had recorded his lines but then dropped out of the project for reasons unknown. He was replaced by Benjamin Bratt.   
    There are at least two minions called Kevin. In the first Despicable Me (2010) Kevin has one eye in the second another minion named Kevin has two eyes and is taller.   
    At Dr. Nefario's work station a pinned up photo of him on a beach can be seen which was also Gru's background for him on his cell phone in the first Despicable Me (2010).   
    There's a brief shot in the film in which Edith is playing ping pong with a minion but uses a pair of nunchaku as opposed to a ping pong paddle. This is a reference to a famous Chinese Nokia commercial in which a Bruce Lee impersonator in a mock "lost home video" also plays a game of ping pong using only a pair of nunchaku.   
    The 626 area code is from California meaning that this movie and the original Despicable Me movie probably take place in the San Gabriel Valley or nearby in the northeast portion of Los Angeles county.   
    In the beginning of the movie you see a minion getting his head stuck in a jar. Throughout the movie that minion is seen with the jar still stuck on his head.   
    When Gru is spying on Margo he hides behind a cactus plant three lobes of which give him the nose and ears of Mickey Mouse and another one that gives him the nose of Squidward Tentacles from SpongeBob SquarePants.   
    When the Minions assemble to give Dr. Nefario a 21-fart-gun salute the bugle call "To the Color" can be heard playing in the background. This is a U.S. Army bugle call that is traditionally played on Army posts after the call of "Retreat" as the post flag is lowered at the end of the duty day.   
    Though most of the movie was from the script there were some lines ad-libbed by Steve Carell and Kristen Wiig.   
    At Agnes' birthday party at the beginning of the movie some kids are playing a fishing game in a small kiddie pool. One kid hooks a piranha that looks just like the ones in Vector's piranha gun in the first movie.   
    When Gru enters the Eagle Hair Club and Eagle-san greets him Eagle-san is petting what appears to be a long-haired white cat (which actually turns out to be a wig). This is a reference to James Bond films in which the leader of SPECTRE is petting a white cat.   
    In Gru's entry hallway the petals of a flower in a painting are the trefoil bio-hazard symbol. Other artwork displays "Poison Dart Frogs" and "Pirate Flags."   
    The scene where the two men are playing chess outside the lab contains a sequence briefly identical to Pixar's animated short Geri's Game.   
    WILHELM SCREAM: At the start of the movie as the magnet ship is overhead one of the researchers falls and screams.   
    The first Illumination Entertainment sequel.   
    When Gru takes off on his motorcycle (shades of James Bond) to rescue Lucy he's wearing a helmet with goggles. The directors didn't want to show him wearing the goggles because he would look like a Minion; plus it's a throwback to various World War II movies where a hero rides a motorcycle.   
    When the ice cream truck arrives the minions say 'gelato' which is Italian for ice cream.   
Javier Bardem was supposed to voice the villain but dropped out.   
    The highest-grossing 'Illumination Entertainment' film.   
    The old lady at the Pyramids in the beginning of Despicable Me is also doing yoga in the park in DM2 when Gru walks through during the song "Happy" and then on his way back home.   
    The woman in the red shorts doing yoga in the park is the same woman from the first movie when Gru is watching the girls at their ballet practise.   
    When in the girls room there is a box of junk with a picture of Gru's family tree with the crayon picture of Margo Edith and Agnes.   
    One of many examples of how macho the villain is the bull above the front door of the Salsa & Salsa was an actual bull. When Gru Agnes and Edith enter the restaurant looking for Margo you can see the back half of the bull protruding from the wall above the door.   
    The longest 'Illumination Entertainment' film as of 2013.   
    The final Despicable Me film for Elsie Fisher as the voice of Agnes.   
    When Gru goes back to Macho's house to rescue Lucy he goes in handcuffs with two minions painted purple. The scene is reminiscent of R2D2 and C3PO going to Jaba's palace because of the shot of the door opening with large teeth on the bottom of the door to prevent it from being battered in. It is shot from the same angle and is thus a tribute to Return of the Jedi in that brief shot.   
    Lost both the Oscars it was nominated for to Disney's Frozen (2013).   
    When the villain tap dances on the floor tiles to enter the code for the door to his lair after he repeats the five-note pattern a second time (first four measures of the song La Cucaracha) the final sequence is completed by the mechanism as a low pitched horn sound. This is how the alien ship responds when a five-note pattern is played over and over by the scientist in Close Encounters of the Third Kind.   
    When the two minions are escorting Gru into El Macho's place the ax-head used can be seen to be made of cardboard; among other household items.   
    In Despicable Me 2 (2013) Gru (Steve Carell) is a single dad with three orphaned daughters one of whom - Margo - is 'dating' a young boy which Gru is trying to prevent from dating. In a previous film Dan in Real Life (2007) Dan (Steve Carell) also plays a single (widowed) dad with three daughters one of whom - Cara - is also 'dating' a young boy which Dan is trying to prevent from dating. Interestingly both of the young boys are Spanish-speaking.   
    This is the second time we find a Kristen Wiig character in a cupcake bakery. In this film she has a scene with Gru in "Bake My Day". In Bridesmaids (2011) she used to own "Cake Baby"* bakery where she made cupcakes.   
    Kristen Wiig who voices Lucy in this movie also voiced Miss Hattie in the previous movie   
    Illumination's 4th feature film.   
    When El Macho goes into the elevator to his lair the door has the same artwork as the icon for Temple Run and Temple Run 2.   
    This is the first Ilumination film to be nominated for 2 academy awards   
    The second Illumination Entertainment film to be rated PG for rude humor and mild action by the MPAA after Despicable Me (2010).   
    This is the first Illumination Entertainment film to become a franchise.   
    At one hour and thirty-eight minutes this is the longest Despicable Me film.   
    El Macho drinks a liquor bottle during a flashback scene. The label says "La Venganza del Escorpión" which is Spanish for "The Revenge of the Scorpion". Behind it there is a poster also in Spanish that reads "If you are drinking to forget pay first."   
    One of the minions in the end credits has Heterochromia iridum. His left eye is brown while his right eye is green. This is Bob one of the minions in the upcoming film Minions(2015) about how the minions met their boss.   
    When the minions sing "I Swear" at the wedding party the title words are replaced with "Underwear".   
    At the wedding the minions singing "I Swear" were modelled to resemble the singing group Boyz II Men however the R&B; group that originally recorded the song was All-4-One. Boyz II Men never recorded it.   
    During the beach scene with the abducted minions you can see a minion dressed as Isaac Washington the bartender from "The Love Boat".   
    When the minion with the Popsicle wakes up on the island he looks around and then heads to the beach. When you look toward the water there is a green "El Macho" flag visible in the sand on the left side.   
    Just before the first two Minions are injected with the purple serum they say 'kanpai' - that's a Japanese toast similar to 'cheers' or 'bottoms up'.   
    When Gru and Lucy are in the Salsa Salsa restaurant during the short fight with the chicken there is an Alien reference when the chicken bursts out of Gru's chest.   
    Eduardo's medallion is pretty much identical to his alter-ego's El Macho medallion except is rotated 90 degrees counter-clockwise to look like an "E" instead of a "M".   
    When Eduardo (El Macho) invites Gru and the girls to his Cinco de Mayo party he calls Gru "cabeza de huevo" which literally translates to "head of egg" or egg head - a reference to Gru's baldness.   
    Gru seems to be very wealthy as indicated that he pays each of the minions wages and there are over 10000 minions. Although it is also indicated that much of his money comes from the Bank. However his source of income in Despicable Me 2 is still unknown.   
    The music heard when El Macho steps on the tiles to open his secret headquarters is 'La Cucuracha' (The Cockroach)   
    When Gru enters El Macho's fortress as a 'prisoner' he says "Curses foiled again" That is the catch-phrase of Snidely Whiplash from the 'Dudley Do-Right of the Mounties' cartoon and has been used by various other villains in other cartoons.   
    One of the patrons in the coffee shop in Despicable Me that Gru freezes can be seen on the street after Gru gets kissed by Lucy as he struts his stuff to to the song "Happy"   
    Whenever the Lipstick-Taser is tasing a person It is noticed that the person dances rapidly fast. For example when Lucy tases Gru he dances with his finger up and down and when Gru tases Eduardo/El-Macho he seems to be first dancing with a guitar then dancing with his hands over the waist before falling down.   
    When the painted purple minion is exposed the one who screams and points at him does the exact same pose as Donald Sutherland in Invasion of the Body Snatchers (1978).   
    At the end of this film Lucy Wilde is tied up and strapped to a rocket. At the end of the sequel Despicable Me 3 (2017) she is left tied up and gagged in a closet.  ]
