[
    When Calvin Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio) smashes his hand on the dinner table DiCaprio accidentally crushed a small stemmed glass with his palm and really began to bleed. He ignored it stayed in character and continued with the scene. Quentin Tarantino was so impressed that he used this take in the final print and when he called cut the room erupted in a standing ovation. DiCaprio's hand was bandaged and he suggested the idea of smearing blood onto the face of Kerry Washington. Tarantino and Washington both liked this so Tarantino got some fake blood together.   
    During the filming of one of the dinner scenes Leonardo DiCaprio had to stop the scene because he was having "a difficult time" using so many racial slurs. Samuel L. Jackson then pulled him aside telling him "Motherfucker this is just another Tuesday for us."   
    When Dr. Schultz puts the dynamite in the tooth atop the wagon he is whistling the Django theme song.   
    According to critic Alex Ross the alliance between Django and Dr. Schultz is "not as absurd" as audiences might believe because in the 1840s many German revolutionaries and progressives left Europe for the U.S. where they often became active in the anti-slavery movement.   
Leonardo DiCaprio whose role marked the first time he played a villain since The Man in the Iron Mask (1998) was uncomfortable with how horrible and explicitly racist his character was. However Quentin Tarantino convinced him to be as menacing as possible saying that if he didn't take it all the way people would hold it against him forever.   
Jamie Foxx used his own horse Cheetah in the movie. He got it four years prior as a birthday present.   
    In an interview Quentin Tarantino stated that originally the mandingo fight scene and the scene with the dogs were longer and more violent. He said he felt like he was going to "traumatize" the audience so he cut both scenes down.   
    After working on this film composer Ennio Morricone said he would probably never again collaborate with Quentin Tarantino since he didn't like the way he "places music in his films without coherence" and "never giving enough time". However Morricone and Tarantino had also worked together on three previous movies and they once again collaborated for The Hateful Eight (2015) which earned Morricone his first Academy Award.   
    After an accident in training where Christoph Waltz was thrown off his horse and broke his pelvis Jamie Foxx gave him a gift to make him feel better about riding a horse: a saddle with a seat belt.   
Christoph Waltz turned down the role when first given the script. He felt it was too tailored to his persona. Quentin Tarantino insisted and wouldn't take no for an answer. Waltz agreed under one condition: his character had to be pure and never once act in a negative or evil manner. Tarantino sent him a hand written letter that simply said "Of Course Mein Herr- Q" Waltz sent a telegram back "Mein Herr Of Course- CW"   
    The men in hoods organized by Big Daddy represent a group known as "The Regulators" - spiritual forebears of the later post-civil war KKK formed in 1865.   
Will Smith Idris Elba Chris Tucker Terrence Howard Michael Kenneth Williams and Tyrese Gibson were all considered for the role of Django. Quentin Tarantino actually wrote the role with Smith in mind and Smith's agents and manager wanted him to accept it but Smith ultimately decided to pass. Tarantino then offered the part to Jamie Foxx who accepted.   
    Excluding films in which the cast is billed alphabetically (Celebrity (1998) and Don's Plum (2001)) this is the first time in sixteen years that Leonardo DiCaprio didn't get top billing.   
    The white men playing poker towards the end of the film are using severed ears from slaves as their currency.   
    The film was shot in 130 days. This was Quentin Tarantino's longest shooting schedule for a single film.   
Jonah Hill was supposed to play a bigger role in this film. He was originally cast to portray a character named Scotty Harmony the son of Southern slave buyers who would purchase Broomhilda to become his lover. The entire segment was cut.   
Christoph Waltz dislocated his pelvic bone while training for his part. He alluded to the injury backstage after winning the Golden Globe stating "Riding a horse wasn't much of a challenge. Falling off was." Waltz's injury necessitated that King Schultz's early scenes on horseback be accommodated by a horse-drawn wagon instead.   
    When Quentin Tarantino first met Franco Nero in Rome he told Nero that he first saw Django (1966) when he was working in a video store. He then proceeded to recite lines and even sing the songs to Nero from all his movies. Nero was astonished that he knew them all.   
Quentin Tarantino revealed at Comic-Con that Jamie Foxx and Kerry Washington's characters are meant to be the great-great-great-grandparents of the character John Shaft from the Shaft (1971) films. An overt reference to this connection can be found in Washington's character's full name: Broomhilda Von Shaft.   
    The quilt that is on the bed into which Broomhilda is thrown is an Underground Railroad style. Myth has it that slaves would use quilts to communicate and the Underground Railroad style was saying to "pack up and go".   
    The film did not receive a rating from the MPAA until over a week before its wide domestic release. Nevertheless Quentin Tarantino decided in the best interests of audiences to tone down the film's violence. According to Tarantino "the MPAA actually gave an R rating to a rougher version than I ultimately ended up presenting to the public...I could handle a rougher version of the movie than what exists right now. I have more of a tolerance for it but I kind of realized that when I watched that version of the movie with audiences that I was traumatizing them too much. It's just that f**king simple. And I want people to enjoy the movie at the very end of it."   
    The name "Django" is a Romani name meaning "I awake." It was very popular among musicians and jazz enthusiasts for having been the adopted name of Jean-Baptiste Reinhardt (1910-1953) a Romani-Belgian jazz guitarist known as Django Reinhardt.   
    Cuba Gooding Jr. lobbied for the role of Django but Quentin Tarantino would not consider him. According to Gooding it's his biggest disappointment.   
    While filming on location in Jackson Hole Wyoming Quentin Tarantino rented out a local movie theater to show samurai and Western movies from his own personal collection.   
    At one hour six minutes and seventeen seconds Christoph Waltz's performance in this movie is the longest ever to win an Academy Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role.   
Joan of Arcadia (2003) star Amber Tamblyn makes a cameo early on in the film as Dr. Schultz and Django make their way through the town of Daughtry Texas. Django on his horse causes quite a stir in the town and in one shot Amber Tamblyn is seen gazing down from behind a window in amazement as the pair make their way through the town. In an interview the actress explains on the reasoning for the cameo - "It was first a friend thing" she explained. "He texted me and said 'Would you come do a cameo?' And I said yes. And after the fact I said 'It would be super cool to have my father (Russ Tamblyn) and me play Son of a Gunfighter and Daughter of a Son of a Gunfighter.' And Quentin was like 'Sold. Done.' So it's sort of like this totally weird thing to happen and a total inside joke." It's also a sweet father-daughter memory. "It's such a cool moment for me to see my name in an old Western style next to my dad's" Tamblyn said. "Even though I didn't really have much of a role that to me is like a career lifetime moment. Some day when my dad is gone I'll look at that and go 'We were next to each other.'"   
    Django's blue costume is based on the famous painting "The Blue Boy". This painting inspired F.W. Murnau's film Emerald of Death (1919) (Emerald of Death). Murnau is best known for creating the "Unchained" camera technique.   
Leonardo DiCaprio who plays villain Calvin Candie in this film was originally the first choice for the role of antagonist Hans Landa in Quentin Tarantino's previous film Inglourious Basterds (2009). However Tarantino decided that a German-speaking actor should portray the character and the part went to Christoph Waltz who portrays Dr. King Schultz in this film which marks Waltz's second film collaboration with Tarantino. DiCaprio can however speak some German.   
    Holds the all time record for most uses of the word "nigger" or some version of it in a motion picture with 116 uses.   
    There was talk of splitting the film into two parts like Kill Bill but Quentin Tarantino eventually rejected the idea and cut a whole lot of the planned film. Among what was cut out includes an entire backstory for Zoë Bell's character which explains that she wears a bandanna over her face to hide a gruesome injury. Tarantino does plan on releasing an extended cut later down the line restoring some scenes that were left on the cutting room floor.   
    Calvin explains that via the study of Phrenology he is able to find the three dimples on Ben's skull which represent submissiveness. Phrenology was an ill-fated phase of real Psychology when it was actually believed bumps on different skull locations represented different traits like creativity athletic ability and so on. It is considered quackery by modern medical standards.   
    Dr. Schultz says he wants to re-name Eskimo Joe the Mandingo fighter he tries to purchase "Black Hercules." This was the real-life nickname of Ken Norton the actor/boxer who starred in Mandingo (1975).   
Leonardo DiCaprio was injured twice once during rehearsal and once during filming. Once with a hammer that broke and hit him in the head. For filming the hammer he handled was made of foam. The second is an accidental glass broken while filming the dinner scene which was real and caused Leo to bleed.   
    This is the second time Jamie Foxx and Kerry Washington have portrayed a married couple. The two previously starred as Ray Charles and Della Bea Robinson in Ray (2004).   
    While Kevin Costner turned down the role of Ace Woody this is not the first time he has rejected a role offered to him by Quentin Tarantino. The character of Bill in Tarantino's Kill Bill films was originally written with Costner in mind and eventually offered to him but he refused. That role went to David Carradine who died in 2009 and to whom this film is dedicated.   
    One of the members of the Smitty Bacall Gang was Gerald Nash. This name was also used as one of the police officers killed by Mickey and Mallory in Natural Born Killers (1994) (written by Tarantino). This is a trademark of Tarantino's: reusing names and relating characters among his scripts.   
Leonardo DiCaprio has stated that the characters of Drexl Spivey from True Romance (1993) and Doc Holiday from Tombstone (1993) were main influences on his performance as Calvin Candie. True Romance was also written by Quentin Tarantino.   
    Dr. King Schultz partly mirrors the real-life Doc Holliday also a dentist turned gunfighter.   
Quentin Tarantino has said that Calvin J. Candie is the only character he has ever created whom he truly despises.   
    For the montage sequence of Django and King beginning their partnership as bounty hunters Quentin Tarantino played the background music live on the set while filming.   
    The opening song is the actual soundtrack that played during the opening credits of Django (1966) by Luis Bacalov.   
    The film's release was delayed in China by government censors in April 2013. Their requests included "turning the blood to a darker color or lowering the height of the splatter of blood."   
    With an estimated budget of 100 million dollars this is Quentin Tarantino's most expensive film.   
    While it is known that there is a link between Dr. King Schultz and the grave of the mysterious "Paula Schultz" featured in Tarantino's Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004) not much is fully understood about the connection. However fans have theorized that Dr. Schultz was related to this Paula Schultz character possibly as in husband and wife at some point who were separated shortly before the doctor went to pursue his career as a bounty hunter. Other theories suggest that Paula Schultz could have been Dr. Schultz's estranged daughter or long-lost sister. Tarantino has not confirmed this however.   
Joseph Gordon-Levitt was cast in a minor role as Jano but had to drop out due to scheduling conflicts with his directorial debut Don Jon (2013).   
    The Italian song playing right before Django and Broomhilda reunite translates as «Still here/ still you/ although now/ I know who you are/ who you will always be/ and when you'll see me// you'll remember/ still here/ still you/ I hope that you will forgive me/ you -your eyes are still the same- you seem to ask again about me/ about how things are/ [...] something that will come back/ as it was again/ still here/ still you/ and what's been its gone by now/ and [song ends abruptly]».   
    Although the film is often considered a part of the western genre Quentin Tarantino preferred to refer to the film as a "southern" due to the film's setting in America's deep south.   
    Many of the actors are playing characters written with them in mind including among the more sizable roles Christoph Waltz Leonardo DiCaprio and Samuel L. Jackson.   
    When Django and Dr. Schultz are in Daughtrey Texas the saloon they are in is called "Minnesota Clay's Saloon". Minnesota Clay (1964) is the name of a Western film directed by Sergio Corbucci the same director of the original Django (1966).   
    As appreciation for being cast James Remar gave Quentin Tarantino a 35mm IB Technicolor print of Mandingo (1975). Quentin occasionally screens the print at his repertory theater in Los Angeles The New Beverly Cinema.   
Franco Nero making his cameo in the film is seen wearing white gloves. This may be a reference to his wounds in the original Django film. However this should not be seen as him being the same character in both movies as Django (1966) takes place in the 1870s and Django Unchained (2012) takes place before that in the 1850s.   
    DIRECTOR_TRADEMARK(Quentin Tarantino): [Rotating Shot]: During the first dinner scene with Calvin the camera moves around the table as he talks showing the different characters' faces and towards the end when Django is talking with the LeQuint Dickey Mining Company about the Smitty Bacall gang the camera similarly rotates around them. Tarantino has used this effect in Reservoir Dogs (1992) and Death Proof (2007).   
    First western to win the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay since Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) and the first to win an Award for Acting (and in the same category) since Unforgiven (1992). The film along with True Grit (2010) repeated a rare pattern where 20 years earlier two westerns (the other being Dances with Wolves (1990)) were nominated for Best Picture two years apart.   
Zoë Bell and Lady Gaga were considered for the role of Lara Lee Candie-Fitzwilly.   
    DIRECTOR_CAMEO(Quentin Tarantino): One of the LeQuint Dickey Mining Company employees using an Australian accent. He also reportedly is wearing a bag on his head among the Regulators.   
    King's and Django's horses are named Fritz and Tony. These are the names of the horses of (respectively) silent western stars William S. Hart (Fritz the Horse) and Tom Mix (Tony the Horse).   
    WILHELM SCREAM: When the riders retreat from the exploding wagon in their night raid and one falls off a horse.   
    Dr. King Shultz kills approximately 23 people while Django kills approximately 38 people in the film's run. Calvin Candie kills nobody but under his instruction is responsible for two deaths.   
    Features seven actors who have been nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role. Jamie Foxx (for Collateral (2004)) Christoph Waltz (Inglourious Basterds (2009) and this film) Leonardo DiCaprio (What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993)) Samuel L. Jackson (Pulp Fiction (1994)) Jonah Hill (Moneyball (2011)) Russ Tamblyn (Peyton Place (1957)) and Bruce Dern (Coming Home (1978)). Waltz is the only one to have won although Foxx captured the Best Actor Oscar for Ray (2004) and Leonardo DiCaprio for The Revenant (2016) (which was obviously released after this film).   
Sid Haig was a strong contender for the role of "Mr. Stonesipher" so much so that Casting Director Victoria Thomas informed Haig's agent "It's a lock". Quentin Tarantino scheduled and later canceled at the last minute two auditions for Haig. Two months later the role quietly went to David Steen instead. Tarantino being known for his extremely dry humor this "prank" is presumably rooted in Haig turning down the role of Marcellus Wallace in Pulp Fiction (1994).   
Sacha Baron Cohen was cast as Scotty and Kurt Russell was cast as Ace Woody but both dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. Kurt Russell would later star in Tarantino's The Hateful Eight (2015) which also starred Samuel L. Jackson and Walton Goggins. Coincidentally The Hateful Eight (2015) is set in the same universe as this movie but is not a sequel. Samuel L. Jackson and Walton Goggins play different characters in both movies.   
Russ Tamblyn whose character in this movie is named "Son of a Gunfighter" starred in the 1965 movie Son of a Gunfighter (1965). Also Tamblyn's real-life daughter Amber Tamblyn plays the character named "Daughter of a Son of a Gunfighter".   
    Dr. Schultz (Christoph Waltz) reminds Monsieur Candie (Leonardo DiCaprio) that his slave d'Artagnan (Ato Essandoh) is named for the hero of Alexandre Dumas's novels and that Dumas was a black man. Waltz and DiCaprio have both appeared in adaptations of those novels: Waltz played Cardinal Richelieu in The Three Musketeers (2011) and DiCaprio played King Louis XIV and his brother Phillippe in The Man in the Iron Mask (1998).   
    During the first forty minutes of the movie with the exception of a single scene at Big Daddy's plantation Schultz drives a wagon rather than riding a horse. This was because Christoph Waltz had injured his pelvis in a fall from a horse during shooting. Analysis of the script shows that there was only a small amount of dialogue that ever had to be rewritten due to the cart.   
    After the actors left the project the minor roles that were going to be played by Michael Kenneth Williams Sacha Baron Cohen and Joseph Gordon-Levitt were removed from the film.   
Denzel Washington was considered for the role of Django but was deemed too old.   
    Although some viewers feel that Calvin Candie displays incestuous behavior towards his sister Lara it is not necessarily so. He is a Francophile and it is a tradition among the French to greet each other by kissing on the cheeks.   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2011 Blacklist; a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
    In the beginning of the film where Dr. Schultz frees Django one of the slaveowners calls one of the slaves Blueberry. This is a reference to the comic Blueberry made by Jean "Moebius" Giraud and Jean-Michel Charlier. Blueberry takes place during American Old West where the main character starts out as a racist but after he is saved by an African-American he becomes a gunman who fights against all kinds of discrimination.   
Quentin Tarantino's first feature film not edited by Sally Menke who died in 2010. Fred Raskin (who also assisted Menke on Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) and Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004)) took over editing duties.   
    Django takes on a mythical form while on Big Daddy's plantation confronting the Brittle Brothers. The Gothic nature of this scene is clearly represented when Big John Brittle is about to whip Little Jody for breaking eggs. Django is dressed in his "Blue Boy" attire but when Little Jody looks at his image in the mirror next to the tree where she is tied Django's head and hands are invisible in the reflection elevating his mythic stature to that of an enchanted figure. In Gothic lore specters and ghosts are unable to see their own reflections.   
    Calvin Candie is constantly eating candy and sugary delectables which causes his rotten teeth. That connects four things in the plot: Calvin is rotting from the inside because of his evil nature (according to Quentin Tarantino) Dr. King Schultz is a dentist turned bounty hunter who "gets rid of" the human cavity who is Calvin Candie Calvin's farm is named 'Candyland' and sugar was one of the main crops harvested by slaves.   
    This is technically not the first western Django film Quentin Tarantino has worked on he played a minor role in Sukiyaki Western Django (2007). This role was in exchange for a request by Tarantino for Sukiyaki's director Takashi Miike to cameo in Eli Roth's Hostel (2005).   
    J. Michael Riva the Production Designer for the film died on June 7th long before the movie's Christmas Day release. This marked Django Unchained (2012) as his final credit.   
    The scene with the Australian slave traders was originally written a little differently. Instead of two Aussies and the Southern hillbilly man (played by Michael Parks) according to the final draft of the script there were supposed to be three Australians and the characters had more dialogue.   
Franco Nero was considered for the role of Calvin Candie but instead was given a cameo appearance as a minor character. Nero suggested that he play a mysterious horseman who haunts Django in visions and is revealed in an ending flashback to be Django's father; Quentin Tarantino opted not to use the idea.   
David Steen plays Mr. Stonesipher Candie's dog handler. The last time Steen worked with Quentin Tarantino he played a dog-handling cop in Reservoir Dogs (1992).   
    Marks the fifth time director Quentin Tarantino and actor Samuel L. Jackson collaborated in a director/actor relation.   
Quentin Tarantino wrote a role for Michael Kenneth Williams but Williams had to turn it down due to scheduling conflicts with Boardwalk Empire (2010).   
    In one of the scenes at the beginning Tarantino used an arrangement of the main music theme from the film Two Mules for Sister Sara (1970) directed by Don Siegel and original score written by Ennio Morricone.   
    King Schulz mentions that Alexandre Dumas père was one-quarter black. Dumas was of mixed ancestry. On his father's side his grandfather was a French nobleman and his grandmother was an African slave in what is now Haiti.   
Dennis Christopher's character Leonide Moguy is an homage to 1930s/'40s French director Léonide Moguy.   
    Was described (perhaps uncharitably) by Samuel L. Jackson in an interview as "Shaft (1971) on a horse."   
    It has been suggested that Michael Parks' character in this film is Earl McGraw's (a role played numerous times by Parks) ancestor although neither Quentin Tarantino nor Parks have confirmed this.   
    The music where Django confronts Big John Brittle and Lil' Raj Brittle is from Django (1966) when the main antagonist in the latter movie is using Mexican civilians as target practice.   
    In November 2012 in his monologue while hosting Saturday Night Live Jamie Foxx promoted the movie and included this: "And in the movie I had to wear chains. How whack is that? But don't be worried about it because I get out the chains I get free I save my wife and I kill all the white people in the movie. How great is that? "   
Leonardo DiCaprio and Russ Tamblyn have both appeared in modern-day adaptions of Romeo & Juliet. DiCaprio played Romeo in Romeo + Juliet (1996) while Tamblyn played Riff in West Side Story (1961).   
    The fifteenth biggest grossing film of 2012.   
    DIRECTOR_TRADEMARK(Quentin Tarantino): [Long Shot]: There is a long shot when Django is explaining his plan to the LeQuint Dickey Mining Company employees.   
    The film cast includes four Oscar winners: Christoph Waltz Leonardo DiCaprio Jamie Foxx and Quentin Tarantino; and four Oscar nominees: Samuel L. Jackson Bruce Dern Russ Tamblyn and Jonah Hill.   
    In a January 2013 interview with Vanity Fair Costume Designer Sharen Davis said much of the film's wardrobe was inspired by spaghetti westerns and other works of art. For Django's wardrobe Davis and Quentin Tarantino watched Bonanza (1959) and referred to it frequently. The pair even hired the hatmaker who designed the hat worn by Little Joe. Davis described Django's look as a "rock-n-roll take on the character". Django's sunglasses were inspired by Charles Bronson's character in The White Buffalo (1977). Davis used Thomas Gainsborough's 1770 oil painting The Blue Boy as a reference for Django's valet outfit. In the final scene Broomhilda wears a dress similar to that of Ida Galli's character in Blood for a Silver Dollar (1965). Davis said the idea of Calvin Candie's costume came partly from Rhett Butler and that Don Johnson's signature Miami Vice (1984) look inspired Big Daddy's cream-colored linen suit in the film. King Schultz's fake chinchilla coat was inspired by Telly Savalas in Kojak (1973). Davis also revealed that many of her costume ideas did not make the final cut of the film leaving some unexplained characters such as Zoë Bell's tracker who was intended to drop her bandana to reveal an absent jaw.   
    Four characters use the word "nigger" at least ten times: Calvin Candie (29 times) Stephen (27) Django (14) and Big Daddy (11).   
    It's been theorized that Paula Schultz the deceased woman whose grave Beatrix Kiddo (Uma Thurman) is buried alive in Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004) is Doctor King Schultz's wife. On the gravestone it states that Paula Schultz died in 1898. This film takes place in 1858 - 1859 and Dr. King Shultz may had been married at some point in his life.   
Quentin Tarantino included scenes in the snow as an homage to The Great Silence (1968). "Silenzio takes place in the snow. I liked the action in the snow so much Django Unchained has a big snow section in the middle" Tarantino said in an interview.   
    This is the first stand-alone film (not counting Grindhouse (2007) or Death Proof (2007)) directed by Quentin Tarantino which was not produced by Lawrence Bender.   
    Firearms used in the film: James Remar (who plays two characters) wields the same weapon as both a muzzle-loading double-barreled sawed-off 12-gauge shotgun; Lil' Raj Brittle carries a .44 caliber Colt Dragoon with which Django shoots him six times; Django wields a .36 caliber 1851 Colt Navy revolver; Dr. Schultz wields a .44 caliber 1858 New Army revolver; in the final shootout Django wields both revolvers; Schultz also wields a Cobra Big Bore .38 caliber Derringer on a sleeve slide and a .45-70 Sharps 1874 Cavalry Carbine; various characters wield a .44 Rimfire 1860 Henry Rifle; various villains wield 1856 .577 muzzle-loading Enfield Pattern cavalry carbines; Django briefly carries a .44 caliber Remington 1858 Cattleman's Carbine.   
    The title alludes to the titles of Django (1966); Hercules Unchained the American title for Ercole e la regina di Lidia (1959); and to Angel Unchained (1970).   
    The rifle used by Dr. King Schultz is a 1874 Sharps Buffalo which appeared 20 years later than what the movie would suggest.   
Kevin Costner was cast as Ace Woody but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts.   
    The final draft of the script is dated April 26 2011.   
Kurt Russell replaced Kevin Costner for the role of Ace Woody but then had to pull out himself. Russell and Costner appeared together in 3000 Miles to Graceland (2001) and have both played lawman Wyatt Earp in Tombstone (1993) and Wyatt Earp (1994) respectively. Ironically Costner was favored over Russell for the role of Crash Davis in Bull Durham (1988) over 20 years earlier.   
    Jamie Foxx's first western.   
    Calvin J. Candie's given names are a reference to Italian director Giorgio Ferroni who directed several Spaghetti Westerns including a trilogy starring Giuliano Gemma (Blood for a Silver Dollar (1965) For a Few Extra Dollars (1966) and Wanted (1967)). For these films he was usually credited as "Calvin J. Padget" "Calvin Jackson Padget" or "Calvin Jakson Padget". Quentin Tarantino has listed the Padget-Gemma trilogy among his favorite Spaghetti Westerns and used the first film's theme for the soundtrack of Inglourious Basterds (2009).   
Twin Peaks (1990) cast members Russ Tamblyn and Michael Parks appear together in this film alongside their respective children Amber Tamblyn and James Parks as well as Bruce Dern father of their future Twin Peaks cast mate Laura Dern.   
    In the first draft of the script Dr. King Schultz was originally written to be more vulgar.   
    Django Unchained (2012) is one of two films written and directed by Quentin Tarantino that stars Samuel L. Jackson and Michael Bowen in which the main protagonist's name is in the title. The other film is Jackie Brown (1997).   
    Jonah Hill and Leonardo DiCaprio would work together again in The Wolf of Wall Street (2013). They have no scenes together in Django Unchained (2012).   
    During this shoot Walton Goggins was contacted by Sons of Anarchy (2008) creator Kurt Sutter about the transgender role of Venus Van Dam for Season 5. Being a big fan of the show Goggins accepted and landed 6 episodes.   
    Jamie Foxx and Samuel L Jackson appeared in The Great White Hype (1996) together.   
    Both Nichole Galicia and Ato Essandoh went on to appear in Wish I Was Here (2014).   
    Samuel L. Jackson and Lewis Smith grew up in Chattanooga Tennessee.   
    The plantation owned by Calvin Candie is called Candyland. There is a racing board game called "Candyland" that was published by Milton Bradley in 1949. Calvin Candie died in 1859 90 years before the board game was invented.   
Don Johnson and Rex Linn appear in the movie. Both were in television shows that took place in Miami where both were in law enforcement: Johnson in Miami Vice (1984) and Linn in CSI: Miami (2002).   
    Shultz wants to buy the Mandingo fighter Eskimo Joe and rename him "The Black Hurcules". In another Leonardo DiCaprio movie The Aviator (2004) the giant troop plane designed by Howard Hughes was named The Hercules.   
    In the original draft of the script there was supposed to be a young stable/slave boy named Timmy.   
Franco Nero: The lead actor from Django (1966) the movie which inspired this one has a cameo as the owner of the slave that fights against a slave owned by Calvin Candie (the screenplay gives his character the name Amerigo Vassepi). After being asked to spell his name Django explains "The 'D' is silent". Nero replies "I know".   
Zoë Bell: A favorite stunt woman of Quentin Tarantino appears as the tracker with the bandanna hiding her face.   
Tom Savini: A noted special effects and make-up artist in the industry that has worked with Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez respectively on numerous titles. He plays the tracker in the fur coat who pulls the dogs off of d'Artagnan.   
Quentin Tarantino: [Red Apple Cigarettes] During the Mandingo fight scene Django can be seen opening a bag of tobacco with a red apple design on it.   
Quentin Tarantino: [Banal conversation] When the villagers are getting ready for the raid and they talk about the bags.   
Quentin Tarantino: [Bare feet] Depictions of the slaves' bare feet.   
Quentin Tarantino: [Long Shot] During the dinner scene in Candyland there is a long shot where Stephen walks from the kitchen to the dining room then it switches off to Schultz.   
Christoph Waltz concluded his Oscar acceptance speech for this film with "sorry couldn't resist" a reference to his character's final line on-screen "I'm sorry. I couldn't resist."   
    The 12000 dollars paid for Broomhilda's freedom equates to just over 318000 dollars in 2013.   
    About halfway through the film Dr. Schultz says "I for one don't intend to die in Chickasaw County Mississippi USA". Unfortunately that is exactly where he ends up dying.   
    The notoriously famous shootout between Django and Calvin Candie's henchmen was not written in the final script. Instead he and Broomhilda are immediately captured after Dr. Schultz's demise.   
James Remar has two roles: one as Butch Pooch and other as Ace Speck. A situation is created where his first character (Speck) is shot and killed by Christoph Waltz (Dr. King Schultz). Thereafter Remar's second character (Pooch) in turn shoots and kills Dr. King Schultz. In effect Waltz kills Remar and later Remar kills him back.   
    Body count: 69   
    In the finished draft of the script the character of Billy Crash was written to be much more brutal and sadistic. A scene of him raping and tormenting Broomhilda in his cabin was cut from the final film. His original death from Django was also much different. Instead of shooting Crash to death at the end Django takes a large knife and throws it at his chest as he leaves his cabin after his assault on Broomhilda.   
    In the scene in which Samuel L. Jackson is describing what will happen to Django after he is shipped to the mining company Jackson's character ends his monologue by saying "And that will be the story of you." Quentin Tarantino previously used this line in Kill Bill: Vol. 2 (2004).   
    In the final draft of the script Stephen was written to be a more brutal character; in the barn scene after Django was captured at Candie's mansion he was supposed to torture Django by burning off his nipples with a hot poker. The dialogue from this scene spoken by Samuel L. Jackson can be heard on the film's music soundtrack.   
    The biblical verse John Brittle is saying before he is killed by Django is a version of Genesis 9:2 "And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth and upon every fowl of the air upon all that moveth upon the earth and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered." This particular verse refers to God giving all the beasts of the earth into man's hand: in the slave culture black people were considered beasts not fellow men.   
    Despite Quentin Tarantino writing the role of Django specifically for Will Smith he untimely decided to pass on the film due to him seeing the character as not being the lead. He told Entertainment Weekly "Django wasn't the lead so it was like I need to be the lead. The other character was the lead I was like 'No Quentin please I need to kill the bad guy'... I thought it was brilliant. Just not for me."   
    In Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones (2002) Mace Windu (Samuel L. Jackson) kills a bounty hunter named Jango. In this movie Jackson's character Stephen is killed by a bounty hunter named Django.   
Leonardo DiCaprio does not appear until 63 minutes into the film.   
    The final showdown with Django and the hillbilly trackers was written to be entirely different. Mr. Stonesipher the head of the trackers was originally to be a stronger and more threatening villain to Django. There was a scene written in the final draft of the script with Django killing the trackers with an axe. He then faces Mr. Stonesipher and the two engage in hand-to-hand combat with Stonesipher nearly defeating Django but eventually losing.   
    After the initial explosion of Candyland plantation towards the films climax the song "Trinity: Titoli" by Franco Micalizzi is heard playing during Django's exodus. An extra smaller explosion was added in post production while Jamie Foxx is walking away from the buildings burning remains to cover the segment of Micalizzi's song "Sleepy type guy" that was uttered to describe the main character of the song. This segment was an accurate description for the character of "Trinity" from the 1970 spaghetti western They Call Me Trinity (1970) which this song was written for. This phrase was used due to the character's introduction of sleeping and being towed across the desert in a makeshift bed tied behind his horse. However this quote did not match the character of Django who is never seen to rest throughout Django Unchained (2012). Hence the cover up of this segment of the song that would have caused some confusion.   
Samuel L. Jackson does not appear until 86 minutes into the film.   
    Early in the film Christoph Waltz kills a town sheriff and is about to be arrested by the local U.S. Marshal until he pulls out an arrest warrant for the man he has just killed. Later in the film he points out Monsieur Candie's fondness for Alexandre Dumas whose novel "The Three Musketeers" features a similar discussion between d'Artagnan and Cardinal Richelieu who was played by Waltz in The Three Musketeers (2011).   
Quentin Tarantino: [victim's viewpoint] Lil' Raj Brittle's viewpoint is shown before Django kills him.   
    In Kill Bill: Vol 2 Bill describes how painful a shot to the kneecap is. Harvey Keitel mentions the same thing in Reservoir Dogs. This is referenced when Django shoots Stephen in both his knees.   
    When Calvin's people return from his funeral they find Django upstairs in the house wearing a burgundy suit. This is the same suit Calvin was wearing when he first appeared in the movie.  ]
