[
    Unlike the previous Judge Dredd movie Karl Urban has confirmed that the helmet will never come off to keep true to the comic book character.   
Karl Urban insisted on riding the Lawmaster motorcycle himself.   
    Some of Ma-Ma's tattoos are Lena Headey's actual tattoos most notably the flower on her upper right arm. The make-up artists took the design and expanded it to her neck and her face.   
    In Ma-Ma's penthouse there is a Judge's helmet hanging on her wall with a length of gold chain attached to it a nod to the comic design of Judge Dredd where the gold chain would link the badge to the uniform collar   
    In the scene just before Judge Dredd and Anderson travel to Peach Trees all of the crimes in Mega City 1 are shown on computer screens in the Hall of Justice; one of the first screens shows a crime being assigned to Judge Hershey. Judge Hershey is one of the main characters from Judge Dredd (1995).   
    In the classroom in Peach Trees as well as in the mall the new American flag can be seen. It only has 6 stars representing the mega states.   
    The Lawmaster motorcycles were actual functional bikes ridden by actors and stunt performers during filming. The original bike was customized by having the chassis extended and custom fairings added as well as being fitted with the largest tires that would allow the motorcycle to remain operable. The look of the Lawmaster from the comics could not be replicated exactly as that would make the bike undriveable. The large front fairing contained non-functional prop guns and a working screen for the navigation and communication system. All the lights on the bike were operational.   
    There are several references to "fatties" from the comic book (group of extremely obese people many so obese they require a wheel under their stomach to move) - the first shooting victim of the escaping car chase occupant was a "fattie" lying next to his stomach wheel there is also graffiti on the first shots of the skate ramp reads "Fatties rule" and a cut to an extremely obese man during lock-down with a shirt with "fatties" on the front.   
    The character Ma-Ma was originally written as an elderly woman but Lena Headey convinced Alex Garland to make her a middle-age person with a male-hater personality.   
    The Peach Tree block is named after a restaurant in Shrewsbury the place where screenwriter Alex Garland and Judge Dredd creator John Wagner first met to discuss the film.   
    The Judge that talks to the four Judges just before they enter Peach Trees shows the name Volt on his badge. Judge Volt was a prominent character in the 2000 A.D. Judge Dredd comic   
    The Lawgiver sidearms that the Judges carry are Glock 17 pistols with some cosmetic additions. Glock 17 is a handgun popular with real life law enforcement officers.   
Duncan Jones was offered the film but turned it down not because he didn't like the Alex Garland script (Jones said it was great) but because he had such a strong idea of what he wanted to do with a Dredd movie that he felt he could not bring himself to take it on and not do it his way.   
    In the original strip profanity was necessarily substituted with invented words notably the often-shouted expletive "DROKK" In this film genuine swearing is used throughout but 'DROKK' is referenced in the opening scene as it is emblazoned across the back of a jacket when the criminals are fleeing in the van.   
    In the scene right after Anderson interrogates Kay there's a map of the world on the wall. Very prominent in red is the country of South Africa where the film was produced.   
    The large building with shutters over its sides that Dredd drives past in the initial chase is John Vorster Square police station. It is the station where the political activist Steve Biko died during police interrogation in 1977 and the shutters are bullet traps to stop terrorist attacks. The Hall of Justice is actually the inside of the main campus for The University of Johannesburg - the old Rand Afrikaans University campus. Its massive Concrete Hallways are notoriously cold during wintertime.   
Karl Urban's voice for Dredd is comparable to that of Clint Eastwood. The character of Judge Dredd is in fact partly based on Eastwood's character of Dirty Harry Callahan from the film Dirty Harry (1971) while the initial look of the character was partly inspired by the original poster art depicting the David Carradine character of Frankenstein from Roger Corman's original Death Race 2000 (1975). In the comics as a tribute to Eastwood's strong influence on the character Judge Dredd lives in Rowdy Yates Block which was the name of the character Eastwood played in the TV series Rawhide (1959).   
    With the exception of Peach Trees the city blocks are named after notable 2000 AD creators and characters.   
    The graffiti throughout Peach Trees contains the names of characters that appear in the Judge Dredd strip such as Chopper and Kenny Who?   
    Judge Joe Dredd is a fictional character whose comic strip in the British science fiction anthology 2000 AD is the magazine's longest running having been featured there since its second issue in 1977. Dredd is a law enforcement officer in a violent North American city of the future where uniformed Judges combine the powers of police judge jury and executioner. Dredd and his fellow Judges are empowered to arrest sentence and even execute criminals on the spot. The character was created by writer John Wagner and artist Carlos Ezquerra although editor Pat Mills also deserves some credit for early development.   
    The Chief Judge is not referred to by name in the film. In appearance she is a combination of Chief Judges MacGruder and Silver and the setting (the boundary wall and the Fergee memorials are both referred to) would place the time of the film in Mega City history as Macgruder's first period in office.   
Michael Biehn auditioned for the lead role.   
Alex Garland pitched in this project when learning that his friends producers Andrew Macdonald and Allon Reich were interested in venturing into big budget projects. It took Macdonald and Reich two years to get the film rights sorted out as the original rights went through several owners after Disney produced Judge Dredd (1995).   
    At 96 minutes has the same running length as Judge Dredd (1995).   
    The music that you keep hearing in the "Clan Techie" computer room is the theme song for the BBC show Snuff Box (2006).   
    The slow-motion sound effect was based on a Justin Bieber song that had been slowed down 800 times.   
    In one scene there is a poster for the fictional film Krysler's Mark a reference to Owen Krysler the Judge Child in the classic Dredd story written by John Wagner which introduced the Angel Gang. The poster says the film is directed by Ulf Suhrmuller who is found out during the closing credits to be a real person and is listed as the Art Department Runner.   
    Despite an active social media fan supported campaign director Pete Travis has said that there will not be a sequel.   
    Dredd only refers to Anderson by name three times. The rest of the time he calls her "Rookie."   
    When the movie shows the comm interface map of the city the ticker reads that Stumm Gas is being deployed to disrupt rioters at the Fergee Memorial. Later in the film Judge Hershey is mentioned on the ticker to be responding to the riot. Stumm Gas and Judge Hershey are both references to the 2000 AD comics. The Fergee Memorial is another nod to a character that was depicted in the original 2000AD Judge Dredd comic strip taken from the classic comic storyline The Day The Law Died. It is not a reference to the singer and actress Fergie as is sometimes mistakenly believed.   
    When it was given a cinema release in New Zealand the film was given the R16 rating. But when it was released on DVD the rating was changed to R18 and it was rated R18 for graphic violence.   
    The events of the film take place entirely in one day.   
    On 7 October 2011 the Los Angeles Times reported that Pete Travis was prohibited from participating in the editing process following creative disagreements between producers and executives. Alex Garland took over the editing process; his contribution was considered significant enough for him to seek a co-director credit-a situation considered unusual as Garland had never directed a film before and had not been in charge of any filming. The disagreement concerned a disapproval over the footage that Travis was providing. Although Travis was removed from the editing process he was monitoring the progress of the film. On 10 October Travis and Garland released a joint statement claiming that they had agreed on an "unorthodox collaboration" before production began that Travis was still involved in the film and that Garland was not seeking a co-director credit.   
    The currency used in Megacity future is known as "credits". A beggar at the entrance to Peach Trees block bears a sign "Homeless junkie will debase self for credits".   
    Domhall Gleason who played Ma-Ma's tech expert starred in screenwriter Alex Garland's directorial debut Ex-Machina (2015).   
Karl Urban revealed in a 2018 interview that Alex Garland also directed the film.   
    In the Judge Dredd comic strip all blocks are given names relevant to some form of connection to the creators the inspiration for the characters/story or current affairs at the time of writing. The nearest block to Peach Trees where the film is set is 'Sternhammer'- which is visible in the opening scenes and at the end of the film. It is also referred to as being where one of the Ma-Ma clan's rivals are based. Wulf Sternhammer was a popular recurring character in the Strontium Dog comic strip in 2000 AD which shared many writers to Judge Dredd and has even had cross over stories.   
    During the Ma-Ma introduction scene the arresting judges listed on the mugshots of the three rival gang members are:- 1) Francisco (Peyote Kings). 2) Silver (Red Dragons). 3) McGruder (The Judged). All are former chief judges in the comic.   
    When Dredd leaves Anderson with the prisoner and walkes down the hallway after Ma-Ma locked them down a person can be heard shouting in Hebrew to "get away from the window".   
    A year after the film's release a 27 minute fan film Judge Minty (2013) was released. The fan film follows aging Judge William Minty whom is forced to retire and spends the final days of his life in the Curse Earth bringing law to the lawless. Judge Dredd in the fan film was played by concept artist Greg Staples. It was his first and only acting role.   
    The movie uses some terminology differently from the original comic strip. A Judge's gun fires six different types of bullet. One type is heat-seeker which homes in on a person's body heat. Another type is incendiary which ignites on impact setting fire to its target. In the comic heat-seeker bullets are sometimes called "hotshots". In the movie the incendiary bullets are called "hotshots. "   
Domhnall Gleeson plays the Clan Techie. He also plays Bill Weasley in the Harry Potter films. Domhnall's father Brendan Gleeson plays Mad Eye Moody. Moody has a magical electric blue eye to replace one taken by an evil character. The Clan Techie has electronic eyes to replace those taken by an evil character. Their color: blue.   
Die Hard (1988) was speculated to be an influence behind the film and the plot: Judge Dredd and Cassandra Anderson are trapped in the Peach Trees tower block when it is taken over by Ma-Ma and her thugs.   
    Slo-Mo appears to have been inspired at least in part by the drug 'Jet' from the Fallout: A Post-Nuclear Role-Playing Game (1997) series of video games. Not only do they share strikingly similar characteristics (both being inhalants and powerful highly addictive narcotic stimulants) but the small inhaler device of both drugs are virtually identical. The most recent incarnation Fallout 4 (2015) even included the same slowed-down time effect possibly as a nod to this film.   
    In an interview for Joblo.com Karl Urban revealed that Dredd was actually directed by Alex Garland. This explains why Pete Travis did not promote the film in any way. This makes Dredd Alex Garlands first feature.   
    Lena Headey worked on this film between seasons of Game of Thrones (2011).   
    The first megablock shown has graffiti portraying McDonald's character "Mac Tonight" a moon face with sunglasses.   
    Ma-Ma is considered to be similar to The Joker from another comic book action film The Dark Knight (2008).   
    Dirty Harry (1971) Die Hard (1988) and Robocop 2 (1990) are considered as possible major influences behind the film and it's plot.   
    The opening narration of Megacity One's crime rate is reminiscent of the Stallone movie "Cobra".   
    Lena Headey dyed her hair red for the movie.   
    Robocop 2 (1990) was speculated to be an influence behind the film: Judge Dredd and Cassandra Anderson goes up against Ma-Ma the evil drug lord Ma-Ma whom illegally manufactures and distributes the Slo-Mo drug in Mega City One.   
    Lena Headey had played the iconic character Sarah Connor in the TV series Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles (2008) which was based on The Terminator (1984) films starring Arnold Schwarzenegger. Arnold Schwarzenegger's former rival best friend and The Expendables (2010) and Escape Plan (2013) co-star Sylvester Stallone played Judge Dredd in Judge Dredd (1995) which this film is a reboot of.   
    Domhnall Gleeson later starred opposite Lena Headey's Game of Thrones (2011) co-stars Max von Sydow Gwendoline Christie Thomas Brodie-Sangster Jessica Henwick Mark Stanley Miltos Yerolemou Emun Elliott and Hannah John-Kamen in Star Wars: The Force Awakens (2015). Sylvester Stallone whom played Judge Dredd in Judge Dredd (1995) had auditioned for Han Solo in Star Wars (1977) but lost out to Harrison Ford and Max Von Sydow played Chief Justice Fargo in Judge Dredd (1995).   
    The film is a reboot of Judge Dredd (1995).   
    Rookie Cassandara Anderson (Olivia Thirlby) is explicitly shown using her telepathic abilities as a weapon most notably when she has a "duel in the center of the mind" with Kay that leaves him wetting himself. If you pay attention during that scene however you'll notice a more subtle use of her powers: she lets Kay shoot at her with her own sidearm during the imagined fight thus planting the idea of using her weapon against her in his mind. When he later does so for real it turns out very badly for him as the Lawgiver will explosively self-destruct if anyone but the Judge it is DNA coded and issued to tries to use it.   
    Body count: 102.   
    The last judge that Dredd fights in the slo-mo lab is named Lex. "Lex" is the Latin word for "law."   
    There were three treatments that Alex Garland wrote before settling for the present story. The first treatment - the Dark Judges treatment features the encounter between Dredd and a rival judge by the name of Judge Death. However Garland abandoned it after a year's work and 16 drafts on the story admitting that he couldn't crack much on that storyline. The second treatment is related to the Dredd and Cursed Earth storyline but was abandoned for the similar reason. The third treatment was an adaptation of the pro-democracy terrorists attacking the judges storyline but Garland felt that story and his ideas towards it were too grandiose in nature but stated that treatment would have been the third part of a trilogy if there would be one. The final script that he wrote was based on the punchier short stories in the vein of cop movies such as Training Day (2001). John Wagner described the script as correcting the mistake in the earlier version of Judge Dredd (1995) that was considered too sweeping.   
    When Ma Ma's face hits the ground at the end the blood splatter is in the form of the X on Dredd's helmet.   
    At the end Judge Dredd reads Ma-Ma her charges and says "How do you plead?" She replies with silence. He says "Defense noted." then throws her through a window. The act of throwing someone out of a window is called "defenestration."  ]
