[
    The U.S. Marine Corps has Ender's Game by Orson Scott Card on its recommended reading list for officers saying that it offers "lessons in training methodology leadership and ethics as well."   
    For the wirework in the battle room the actors trained for a month with individual Cirque du Soleil members so they could do the wire performances themselves.   
    To achieve the effect of weightlessness for the actors in the battle room two rigs were invented for this movie used to capture zero gravity scenes. First was a lollipop arm which is like a counter-balance offering a full range of motion. The second innovation was a "people crane." It's a contraption sort of like the lollipop arm but put on air pucks so that the effects is like you are floating around in the air.   
Asa Butterfield Hailee Steinfeld and several cast members that portray Battle School cadets in the film went to Space Camp prior to filming to train for zero gravity sequences.   
    Though only briefly visible the name tags on all the character's uniforms have the corresponding braille characters on them.   
    Several props used in the film were created using 3D printers including a model of Mazer Rackham's ship that you'll see hanging in Ender's quarters.   
    The alien Formics have the features and behaviors of ants. The compound Formic Acid is found in the venom of ants.   
Ben Kingsley who is featured prominently in the movie's marketing doesn't appear until 70 minutes into the movie.   
    Each of the "stars" in the battle room objects used for cover against laser fire from the opposing team weighed 13000 lbs.   
    Portions of the film were shot at NASA's Michoud Assembly Facility in New Orleans Louisiana where the massive external tanks for the space shuttle program were constructed.   
    The battle room featured in the film is the diameter of three football fields.   
    Since the book's publication in 1985 Orson Scott Card claims he has fielded numerous options from Hollywood studios to produce a film but he persistently refused in order to maintain the integrity of his vision. When he co-founded Fresco Pictures in 1996 Card decided to screen-write the film himself. However the film remained unmade for another 17 years. When it was eventually made in 2013 Card's screenplay was not used. Card was given a producer credit on the film though it was stated by the studio (after a boycott of the film was instigated by LGBT fans who oppose Card's anti-gay beliefs) that this was merely an honorary credit.   
    Asa Butterfield grew 3 inches during the filming.   
    In the early 2000s Jake Lloyd was one of the leading candidates to play Ender. Coincidentally in 2000 when Lloyd appeared in a magazine ad campaign to promote library patronage he was shown reading a copy of "Ender's Game".   
    The producers consulted with SpaceX CEO Elon Musk to discuss some of the future space shuttle technology depicted in the film.   
    Special wheel harnesses that allowed free range in motion were fitted to actors for filming of Battle Room scenes. Because these scenes are supposed to take place in a null gravity environment the actors had to carefully choreograph their movements to give the accurate illusion of floating.   
    In the book children entered Battle School at 6 years of age. They trained there for several years before progressing to Command School during adolescence.   
    The city featured in the 'Never Again' propaganda poster is actually central Hong Kong.   
    The film was once developed at Warner Bros intended to be directing vehicle for Wolfgang Petersen to be released around 2003. The studio acquired the rights in the mid-90s with Orson Scott Card began writing the screenplay in 1996.   
    Digital Domain the VFX house behind ENDER'S GAME (and films like Iron Man 3 (2013) ) created a demo reel of the battle room before production that helped the producers successfully raise financing independently.   
    Director Gavin Hood was drafted into South Africa's army at age 17.   
    There are 950 effects shots in the film. Digital Domain (one of the main financiers of the film) contributed 700 (about 75%) of the total.   
    The film was a box office flop and was listed in Variety's "Biggest Box Office Bombs of 2013".   
    In May 2013 a group of LGBT sci-fi fans launched a boycott campaign against the film due to anti-gay views and activities of the author of the novel Orson Scott Card who is also a producer of the film. The studio and several people involved with the film's production later released statements about the boycott stating that they did not share Card's views and urged people to see the film anyway. Card however remained unapologetic. The film was a box office flop.   
    During the game at the beginning of the movie the ship piloted by Ender closely resembles the Millennium Falcon the ship piloted by Harrison Ford's character in Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977).   
    Mazer Rackham's jet is a a United States Marine Corps Lockheed Martin F-35B Lightning II. It features stealth and STOVL capabilities.   
    The second time that Ben Kingsley and Asa Butterfield collaborated in a movie the first time being Hugo (2011).   
    According to director Gavin Hood's commentary several planned scenes were cut due to financing problems when one of the investors backed out of the project. The same happened with planned CGI effects when one of the CGI studios working on the film went bankrupt during production.   
    Ender was not supposed to meet Bean at his launch. In fact Bean was not even in his launch group.   
    Harrison Ford described Colonel Graff as a mentor and a manipulator.   
    The film's cast includes two Oscar winners: Ben Kingsley and Viola Davis and three Oscar nominees: Harrison Ford Hailee Steinfeld and Abigail Breslin.   
Gavin Hood: the giant in the Mind Game.   
    When Ender asks Mazer Rackham about his tattoos he replies that it's his way to "speak for the dead". After the Final Battle and finding the Formic Queen Egg Ender takes on the role and pseudonym of "Speaker For the Dead". He learns and understands the deceased and speaks upon their behalf telling their story whether it be through a book or speech. His first subject is the Formic Race but more specifically the queens.   
    In the book Ender kills the Stilson boy and Bonzo although Graff never tells him and he does not find out until he is tried for murder in both cases after the war. Both cases however are ruled as self defense.   
    The markings on the Queen's face at the end when she shows Ender the cocoon are very similar to the tattoos of Mazer Rackham.   
    During the final battle Ender's subordinates are sitting in front of transparent screens controlling the attack ships. Several times it can be seen that they are using a left-hand Razer Nostromo computer gaming keypad.   
    The Ben Kingsley character Mazer Rackham is of the Maori people the indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand.   
    The abandoned sequel would likely to had been an adaptation of Orson Scott Card's sequel novel "Speaker of the Dead" which took place years after the war and Ender Wiggin's disappearance.  ]
