[
    When Scorch signs his name to the floor it is revealed that many fictional characters have already "signed" their name as well. Among these are ALF (1986) Arthur Barf Bender Beta Ray Bill Bucky O'Hare Chewie Dr. Hephaestus E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) EVA Gazoo Gojira (1954) Goku Gonzo Gozer Greedo HAL-9000 IO Johnny-5 Kal-El Khan Kerrigan Klaatu Leeloo Lion-O Marvin Mew Mork Mulder Nessie Odo Paul Ratchet Riddick Ripley Santa Spock Stitch Sue The Thing Tinkey Winkey Venom WALL·E (2008) Wicket Yogurt Zaphod Beeblebrox Zartog Zeus Zim and Zuul.   
    Whenever two names of the hazmat guys are said in succession they match up with the names of famous directors or actors e.g. a hazmat says: "Peter Jackson Detain him" "George Lucas Let's go" "Christopher Nolan On your feet" "James Cameron Don't let him get away" and during the food fight "Bruce" then "Willis." Relevant links: Peter Jackson George Lucas Christopher Nolan James Cameron and Bruce Willis.   
    The film being watched at the video drive-in when Gary crash lands is It Came from Outer Space (1953).   
    When Gary's pod reaches Earth and is out of control the sound of R2-D2 from Star Wars: Episode IV - A New Hope (1977) can be heard mixed in with the sound of the ship's engines.   
James Gandolfini was originally set to voice Shanker but was replaced by William Shatner.   
    The trio of aliens (who landed on Shanker's dad) the music near the end of the movie Scouse accent's (from Liverpool) harmonic sneezing and final comment "Let's not ever break up guys" is a tribute to the Beatles.   
    This is Rainmaker Entertainment's first film to be released theatrically and in 3-D.   
    All the henchmen of General Shanker being named after famous Hollywood directors the general's name may be a nod to a famous Indian director S. Shankar.   
    Brendan Fraser (Scorch) and Sarah Jessica Parker (Kira) previously appeared in Dudley Do-Right (1999) as the title character and Nell Fenwick respectively.   
    Two of the characters' names (Lena and Io) are from the popular video game Dota. The only difference is that Lena is spelt differently in Dota (Lina).   
George Lopez (Thurman) and Sofía Vergara (Gabby Babblebrock) previously appeared together on The Smurfs (2011) which additionally got its sequel The Smurfs 2 (2013) released in the same year as this film.   
William Shatner's 4th Animated Film after Osmosis Jones (2001) The Wild (2006) and Over the Hedge (2006).   
Steve Zahn's 2nd Fully Animated Film after Chicken Little (2005).   
    Went through 17 script re-writes.   
    The logo painted on the trucks that take Gary to the secret military compund says "51 Flavors". This iis not only a nod to "Area 51" (the worst keptsecret military base in the middle of the Nevada desert) but it is also a nod to Baskin-Robbins who boasts they have "31 Flavors".  ]
