[
    Hobbs (portrayed by Dwayne Johnson) is mocked three times as a different member of The Avengers. He is verbally referred to as "The Hulk" and "Captain America" and third seen on a cell phone screen (caller ID) as "Samoan Thor".   
    In the scene in London when Dom is racing Letty there is a small Asian boy who is seen watching the race from a classic London "double-decker" red street bus. The same kid was shown watching Dom and Brian while they pulled the safe in the previous movie Fast Five (2011) it is Justin Lin's son.   
    The tank chase was originally planned to be created via CGI but director Justin Lin insisted that it had to be done practically with some post-production enhancements.   
    When Hobbs arrives at the barbecue Roman remarks that they "better hide the baby oil" to which Hobbs replies with "you better hide that big ass forehead." Hobbs line was improvised by Dwayne Johnson so Ludacris spitting out his drink and Tyrese Gibson being at a loss for words are both spontaneous genuine reactions.   
    The Dodge Daytona that Vin Diesel is driving was made custom. The actual car used in production was rebuilt by Dennis McCarthy and his team from the old 5000 dollar piece of junk that they first acquired.   
    Allegedly more than 100 cars were crashed wrecked or otherwise destroyed in the process of filming.   
Dennis McCarthy the man behind building the vehicles used in the franchise says that they used "a whole fleet of BMW M5s" in order to complete one sequence. McCarthy also said "We pretty much destroyed every single one later on in other scenes"; cars that appear on-screen in close-ups or action shots are not BMW E60 M5s.   
    When Brian O'Connor (portrayed by Paul Walker) is taking his prison mug shot his alias is T. Bridges. That is the combination of his two co-stars' names Tyrese Gibson and Ludacris (as Chris 'Ludacris' Bridges).   
    An early leaked version of the Superbowl television spot showed the title "Furious 6" as the title of the film. The later released teaser poster and television spot showed the final title of the film. Justin Lin clarified that Universal Studios made the decision to promote the film as "Fast & Furious 6" the official title IS "Fast & Furious 6".   
    Following Paul Walker's death on November 30 2013 Universal announced that a portion of the profits from the film's North American Blu-ray and DVD sales would be donated to Walker's charity Reach Out WorldWide.   
    During the film Hobbs (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson) is mocked by being referred to as a superhero three times one of which is Thor. Elsa Pataky (who plays Hobbs right hand woman) is actually married to Chris Hemsworth who plays Thor in several movies.   
    Originally conceived as two movies the first ending with the conclusion of the tank scene and the second ending with the plane.   
    During the scene where Hobbs and Roman exchange jabs at the barbecue and Tej spits out his drink in laughter you can see a bottle of Conjure cognac on the table (presumably the same as what is in his glass). Conjure congac is an alcoholic beverage that Chris "Ludacris" Bridges (the actor who plays Tej Parker) actually co-owns.   
    The chase scene in central London was filmed briefly near Wembley Stadium then edited to look like the whole chase was based in central London.   
Dwayne Johnson makes at least two direct references to his wrestling past. During one conversation he says "guaran-damn-tee" which was on of his mainstays in cutting his old/original wrestling promos as "The Rock." He also states he wants to come down on Shaw like the Walls of Jericho. Biblical references aside Walls of Jericho is a signature finishing move of Johnson's friend fellow wrestler and musician Chris Jericho.   
    When Tej and Hobbs go to the classic cars auction in London Tej sarcastically makes fun of Hobbs purported knowledge about cars with the line "He reads the brochure. I'm proud" after Hobbs comment about horsepower and number of cylinders. That line is almost the same used by Sean Boswell in The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006) when he sarcastically responded to a provocation from an arrogant high school student. Sean's line was "Wow. You can read the brochure" after the student commented about horsepower and exhaust system.   
    The Fast and Furious and X-Men franchises have often released the same installments of a franchise in the same year. X2 and 2 Fast 2 Furious were both released in 2003 X-Men: The Last Stand and The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift were both released in 2006 X-Men Origins: Wolverine and Fast and Furious were both released in 2009 X-Men: First Class and Fast Five were both released in 2011 and The Wolverine and Fast and Furious 6 were released in 2013. Furious 7 was set to be released in 2014 the same year as X-Men: Days of Future Past however it then was pushed to 2015 after Paul Walker's death.   
Mark Bomback did an uncredited rewrite for the script.   
    Two theater-sized units were used for post-production work overseen by Justin Lin.   
    Rita Ora who plays the race host in London can be heard on Iggy Azalea's "Black Widow" single. Azalea would later appear in Furious 7 (2015).   
    A role was offered to German actress Yvonne Catterfeld but she declined because she wasn't happy with some conditions in her contract.   
    At the end when Dom says "1327" it is the address to his house from the first movie.   
Sarah Harding was nearly chosen for the role of Vegh.   
    Several hero cars for the new film were procured from California-based Lucra Cars.   
    This is the third time John Ortiz (Braga) and Shea Whigham (Stasiak) have been in films together the first was Fast & Furious (2009) and the second was Silver Linings Playbook (2012).   
    Ludacris says the line "Time is money" while he and The Rock are taking the clothes and watch off of the snobby auction organizer. This is the second time Ludacris said this line in his film career. The first time was in Crash (2005).   
    The protagonists London HQ is also used for a scene in RED 2 (2013).   
    Hobbs (portrayed by Dwayne Johnson) is told by the car auction manager that "you are clearly not a baller". Johnson would go on to produce and play the lead in Ballers (2015-).   
    When Letty is with Dom Brian and the crew towards the end of the film Brian approaches Letty to apologize to her for getting her involved with Braga and Letty says to Brian "I may not remember anything but I do know one thing. Nobody makes me do anything I don't want." This is the first time in the entire Fast and Furious franchise that Brian and Letty talk to each other directly.   
    The post-credits sequence is Han's death from The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006) while using new footage to introduce Deckard Shaw (portrayed by Jason Statham).   
Jason Statham and David Tennant were at different points considered to play the film's antagonist before Luke Evans signed on. Statham would go on to play future antagonist Deckard Shaw during the end credits scene as well as playing him in Furious 7 (2015) and The Fate of the Furious (2017).   
    When Jah is driving the tank he says (in Indonesian) "Hantam mereka" then it's translated "I need your help" while the actual meaning should be "Hit them".   
    The third Fast & Furious film to end on a cliff-hanger.   
    The 13 minute runway chase at the end of the film would make the runway estimated to be approximately 18 miles long.   
    Although killed in Fast Five (2011) actor Matt Schulze who portrayed Vince can be seen walking amongst the principal characters at the end of the opening credits.   
    The brother Shaw quotes as teaching him "every man has a code" is presumably Jason Statham's character who appears in the post-credits scene and features prominently in Furious 7 (2015) and The Fate of the Furious (2017).   
    The tunnel used in the chase scene when Brian's (portrayed by Paul Walker) car is flipped is actually The Queensway Tunnel (also known as the Birkenhead Tunnel) a toll road tunnel under the River Mersey between The City of Liverpool and The Town of Birkenhead both in the Metropolitan County of Merseyside. It is one of the three Mersey tunnels in Liverpool. However when Dom (portrayed by Vin Diesel) and Hobbs (portrayed by Dwayne Johnson) exit what is supposed to be the same tunnel (it IS the same tunnel the Birkenhead tunnel has a dock exit that leads out towards Liverpool docks) while chasing Shaw they are actually exiting onto Wembley Way in Wembley London Borough of Brent Greater London England which is a pedestrianized street which leads to the world-famous Wembley Stadium. The distance from where they shot the tunnel scene and where they exited the tunnel is almost four hours away by car (at legal speeds of course) in average traffic.  ]
