[
    This is Tim Burton's first film since Big Fish (2003) not to feature Johnny Depp his first since Sleepy Hollow (1999) not to feature Helena Bonham Carter and his first since Mars Attacks (1996) to feature neither of them.   
Winona Ryder and Tim Burton's 3rd collaboration. Their previous one Edward Scissorhands (1990) was 27 years earlier.   
    One of Tim Burton's regular actors Christopher Lee did not take part in this film but archive footage of him in Horror of Dracula (1958) is watched by Victor's parents on television.   
    The film's release spawned a fan theory that this film and Burton's other two stop motion animated films The Nightmare Before Christmas (1993) and Corpse Bride (2005) all are taking place in a shared continuity and tell one big story spanning several centuries and the possibility that Victor Frankenstein and Sparky are descendants of Victor Dort and Scraps from Corpse Bride (2005).   
    This film reunites Tim Burton with Winona Ryder and Catherine O'Hara who previously worked with Burton on Beetlejuice (1988).   
    The mayor of the town is Mr. Burgermeister which means "mayor" in German. His name/appearance is also a homage to Burgermeister Meisterburger the antagonist of the stop-motion film Santa Claus Is Comin' to Town (1970).   
    The pet cemetery features the grave of Zero from The Nightmare Before Christmas (1993).   
    Victor's friend and next-door neighbor is Elsa Van Helsing a reference to Abraham Van Helsing Bram Stoker's Dracula character and Elsa Lanchester the original Bride of Frankenstein (1935).   
    A turtle named "Shelley" is buried in the pet cemetery. Mary Shelley wrote "Frankenstein: or The Modern Prometheus" the novel on which this film is loosely based.   
    The demonstration that Mr. Rzykruski shows in class of the frog's legs twitching when given electricity is based on actual experiments in 1771 by Italian physicist Luigi Galvani who was the first to discover that the legs of dead frogs and other dead creatures twitched and moved when sparked by electricity. This led to the study of bio-electricity and further study of the nervous system and its functions. The study of "galvanic" effects in biology is named after Galvani who is seen as the discoverer of bio-electricity. Several of Tim Burton's movies have played with this theme most notably Frankenweenie and Edward Scissorhands.   
    Mr. Rzykruski looks a lot like Vincent Price an actor by whose films Tim Burton was influenced. Price also played Dracula now the 1958 movie that Victor's parents aren't watching during the lightning storm as well as providing the voice the narrator in Burton's 1982 short film Vincent (1982).   
    The hair on the head of Elsa Van Helsing's dog Persephone is copied from the hair of Elsa Lanchester's character in Bride of Frankenstein (1935) right down to the white streaks.   
    This film contains many references and influences from horror cinema of many different sub-genres across motion picture history from the 1920s to the 1980s. See Movie Connections.   
    When Victor goes to the pet cemetery to dig up Sparky he throws some dirt onto a grave saying 'Goodbye Kitty' which resembles the 'Hello Kitty' logo.   
    Nassor is strongly similar in appearance and speech to the original monster from Frankenstein (1931) while his hamster is a Mummy. Both Frankenstein's monster and The Mummy (1932) were played by the actor Boris Karloff.   
    While Tim Burton based the town of New Holland on a similar town in which he grew up outside Burbank California Disney officially chose New Holland Pennsylvania as the town where the film takes place. After the principal of New Holland Elementary School (also the name of the school in the film) contacted Burton and the film's producers about the fictional town's similarities to New Holland PA Disney representatives brought movie segments and promotional materials to the school. Disney representatives also brought a parade float to New Holland's fall festival. New Holland PA is also known for its Pennsylvania Dutch background and holds a fall festival similar to the "Dutch Day" in the film.   
    One of Tim Burton's famed director trademarks is absent from this movie. Most Burton movie opening credits "follow" a person or object this one's credits do not.   
    The film was filmed at Three Mills Studios. In the movie at the fair there are casks of "Drie Molens" beer. "Drie Molens" in Dutch means "Three Mills".   
    Persephone the poodle is named after the Greek nature goddess who was kidnapped by and forcibly married to Hades god of the underworld and lord of the dead.   
Tim Burton created the Weird Girl ("Staring Girl") in his book "The Melancholy Death of Oyster Boy & Other Stories" (1997).   
Winona Ryder did her own singing. She agreed to do it when Tim Burton said the singing had to sound imperfect.   
    The clock in Victor's attic workshop carries the brand of Miles Paulley art department assistant coordinator.   
    The character Mrs. Frankenstein (Victor's mother) resembles Barbara Bain once married to Martin Landau who provides the voice for the character Mr. Rzykruski.   
    Burton stated in an interview for the CBBC show Blue Peter (1958) that if the studio had said they would not permit him to do the film in black and white he would leave the project as he felt it reflected the classic horror movie style of the the film.   
    This film is loosely based on a live action short film of the same name written and directed by Burton in 1984.   
John August was approached to do a rewrite of the Frankenweenie (1984) script in 2006.   
    Edgar E Gore's name is a pun referring to Igor the hunchback assistant to Dr. Victor Frankenstein in Frankenstein (1931) and to Gothic writer/artist Edward Gorey.   
    The town's name New Holland was once the name of the island continent of Australia from the mid 1600s till the 1800s. It was named by the Dutch explorer Abel Tasman after whom the Australian island state Tasmania was named.   
    The second animated film to be directed by Tim Burton and the first to be solely directed by him.   
    The turtle named Shelly turns giant and rampages through the town. This is a reference to the Japanese Gamera film series where a giant prehistoric turtle terrorizes cities and fights other monsters.   
    DIRECTOR_TRADEMARK(Tim Burton): [dogs]: Sparky the dog gets horribly damaged and altered.  ]
