[
    In the movie the Gangster Squad is assembled to go after Mickey Cohen. However in real life Chief W.H. Parker set up the squad to prevent other gangsters from taking over Cohen's rackets after Cohen went to prison on income tax evasion. Whenever the squad learned that out-of-town gangsters were coming to Los Angeles to try to set up new operations the Gangster Squad would kidnap them beat them up (some rumors say torture) and then send them back to wherever they came from with the warning that if they ever returned they would be killed.   
Sean Penn went through three hours of makeup each morning.   
    The original trailer was pulled after the Aurora Colorado Century 16 theater massacre due to a shot in which four gangsters fire machine guns through a projection screen into a crowded movie theater. Warner Bros. ordered the film back into production for a reshoot of the scene necessitating a rescheduling of the film's release and rewrite of the script.   
Ryan Gosling's exchange with Emma Stone early in the film regarding the playing of "post office" is lifted word-for-word from The Three Stooges short Three Little Pigskins (1934) in a scene with Curly Howard and Phyllis Crane. The short also starred a young platinum blonde named Lucille Ball.   
Nick Nolte who portrays Chief W.H. Parker previously played the leader of the gangster squad in Mulholland Falls (1996).   
De'aundre Bonds' first film role in ten years. He served ten years in prison for manslaughter.   
    Officer Daryl Gates (Josh Pence) Chief W.H. Parker's driver went on to become the Chief of the Los Angeles Police Department. LAPD headquarters called Parker Center was named for his former boss.   
    There are two surviving members of the original gangster squad and they along with relatives of the deceased members came to visit the set.   
Bryan Cranston was cast as Max Kennard but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts with his other movie Argo (2012).   
Ryan Gosling's character makes a joke where he pretends that the only famous Mickey he has heard of is Mickey Mouse. As a child Gosling starred in The All New Mickey Mouse Club (1989).   
Robert Patrick lost 30 pounds for the part in order to look more like a "cowboy".   
    The Garden of Allah Hotel and Villas existed in real life. It was located at 8152 Sunset Boulevard.   
    The big nightclub in the film was originally an old furniture store that was converted. Bellflower CA--where this was shot--was hit hard by the 2007 recession and the production company was able to take over a main street in the city and turn it into period Los Angeles.   
Jamie Foxx was considered for the role of Coleman Harris.   
Adam Brody Joel Edgerton Luke Evans and Joseph Gordon-Levitt were on the short list for the part of Sgt. Jerry Wooters but Ryan Gosling was cast.   
    Two of the reasons Ryan Gosling decided to make the movie was because he wanted to act in a scene with Sean Penn and shoot a Tommy gun. He was disappointed when he found out he didn't have any scenes with Sean Penn.    
    The film is based on a series of L.A. Times articles that were turned into a book written by Paul Lieberman. He turned those stories into a book which was released August 7 which would have been perfect timing if the film hadn't been delayed.   
Ashley Greene Teresa Palmer Camilla Belle Aly Michalka Lily Collins Emmy Rossum Amanda Seyfried and Maggie Grace auditioned for the role of Grace Faraday.   
Amy Adams and Kate Winslet were considered to play Connie O'Mara.   
    The film cast includes two Oscar winners: Sean Penn and Emma Stone; and three Oscar nominees: Ryan Gosling Josh Brolin and Nick Nolte.   
    The first line Sean Penn's character Mickey Cohen speaks in the movie "The children of the night what music they make" is a quote from the novel 'Bram Stokers Dracula' and is also spoken by Gary Oldman starring as Count Dracula in the 1992 film.   
    The film was originally slated for release in early September of 2012 but ended up getting bumped to January of 2013 so some additional scenes could be filmed.   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2010 Blacklist; a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
    Ben Affleck considered directing this but turned it down to do Argo instead.   
    Ryan Gosling agreed to join the film in exchange for the studio financing his directorial debut Lost River.   
Josh Brolin and Sean Penn previously worked together on Milk (2008).   
    Nick Nolte portrays Police Chief W.H. Parker. The real W.H. Parker was in his mid-40's during the time this movie is set. Nick Nolte was 71 years old when the film was released.   
    Anthony Mackie & Josh Brolin would later cross paths in Avengers 3 The Infinity Wars. Anthony as the Avenger- Falcon & Josh as the cosmic super villain Thanos   
    Mickey Cohen's Cell Number in Alcaraz was AZ-1518.   
Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone previously played love interests in Crazy Stupid Love (2011)_.   
    Movie features 4 Marvel characters Josh Brolin as the Thanos Emma Stone as Gwen Stacy Antony Mackie as the Falcon and Michael Peña as Luis.   
Nick Nolte and Sean Penn previously appeared in The Thin Red Line (1998).   
    The tracking shot that starts off the montage was inspired by the hallway fight in the original Oldboy. Josh Brolin also stared in the 2013 Oldboy remake which was also released in the same year as gangster squad.    
Anthony Mackie and Ryan Gosling previously worked together in Half Nelson (2006).   
    Anthony Mackie and Michael Peña both appeared in Ant-Man.   
    Emma Stone Dyed her back to her Natural Hair Color after Starring in The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) for this Movie.   
    Emma Stone Dyed her Hair back to her Natural Hair Color after Starring in The Amazing Spider-Man (2012) for this Movie.   
    Ryan Gosling and Michael Peña previously worked together in The United States of Leland (2003).   
    Body count: 59.   
    The movie culminates in a giant shootout at the hotel in which dozens of gangsters are mowed down by Tommy guns. The leader of the squad Jack O'Mara (Josh Brolin) assaults Mickey Cohen (Sean Penn) and arrests him for murder. In real life Mickey Cohen was arrested for tax evasion. Also by the time Cohen was imprisoned in 1961 the real Jack O'Mara was retired and watched the trial as a civilian.  ]
