[
Adam Sandler's first sequel.   
Adam Sandler wanted Brad Pitt to play the role of the school teacher. He declined due to "scheduling conflicts".   
    Contrary to popular belief Rob Schneider did not reprise his role because he had a falling out with Sandler. He turned down the movie due to scheduling conflicts and his wife was having a baby during production.   
    The Feders' house is the same one used in That's My Boy (2012) also starring Adam Sandler.   
    Two kiwi guys Tim Batt and Guy Montgomery are undertaking an unheard of project by watching this film every week for a year (fifty-two times in total) for their podcast "The Worst Idea of All Time" where they also review the film every week.   
Milo Ventimiglia plays a frat boy but was thirty-six at the time.   
    All of the male cheerleaders were cast members/writers on Saturday Night Live (1975): Andy Samberg Taran Killam Will Forte Bobby Moynihan Paul Brittain Jorma Taccone and Akiva Schaffer.   
    During the scene where Chris Rock leaves the note on his mother-in-law's door stating he'd return the next day to fix the cable as the grandmother is cursing him out as he drives away one of the insults she screams is "motherf*****". However it's dubbed over in screaming gibberish to keep the PG-13 rating and avoid an R.   
    Earned the biggest shut-out in the history of the Razzie Awards by receiving nine nominations at the 34th Razzies and failing to take home a single award. This beats the tied Cannonball Run II (1984) and I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry (2007) (which also featured Adam Sandler Kevin James Steve Buscemi Allen Covert Nick Swardson and David Spade) both with eight nominations and no wins apiece.   
    At the party Salma Hayek plays quarters with Shaquille O'Neal. She sinks her first shot with ease and comments "As easy as sinking a free throw." This is a lighthearted jab at him as it is well known that despite his great talent he was utterly awful at free throws.   
Jake Goldberg (Greg) was sixteen during filming so his mother wanted to be there for the jumping-off-a-cliff-naked scene.   
Chris Rock dressed up as Prince for the 1980s theme party as his younger version did on an episode of his television series Everybody Hates Chris (2005).   
    During the party "Stone Cold" Steve Austin can be seen drinking beer near the beer barrel. This is a nod to his former WWE gimmick when he used to drink out of beer cans in the ring.   
    At the 1980s party you can see guests disguised as stars of this time: Hulk Hogan Crockett and Tubbs from Miami Vice (1984) Tina Turner Mario and Luigi from Mario Bros.  Bruce Springsteen Meat Loaf Boy George Indiana Jones Michael Jackson Donald J. Trump several Smurfs Flavor Flav Tom Cruise's characters from Top Gun (1986) and Risky Business (1983) Prince a member of ZZ Top and many more.   
Chris Rock also guest-starred on an episode of A.N.T. Farm (2011) starring China Anne McClain (his daughter in both "Grown Ups" films).   
    There are two alternate cover arts for this movie shown in the pictures section both of which show scenes eventually cut and never made it to the theatrical release of the movie. One shows three of the four main characters driving go-karts and the other shows all four on a rollercoaster.   
    The way Beefcake Kitty hits the frat boy in the back with the beer barrel is very similar to how wrestlers hit each other with steel chairs. She is actually dressed as wrestling legend Hulk Hogan.   
Oliver Cooper was offered the role of one of the frat guys. He turned it down because of scheduling conflicts.   
    The film has many parallels with Richard Linklater's Dazed and Confused (1993): both take place on the last day of school have ensemble casts featuring primary story arcs for both older and younger groups of characters tackle the phenomena of youth hazing include an everyman protagonist who is genuinely welcomed by all crowds/cliques depicted on-screen (Lenny/Randall "Pink" Floyd) have a fistfight standoff between two men serve as the climactic scene and have several interconnected plots all clash together during the pursuit of "the big kegger/party" in town that night.   
    (At around thirty minutes) You can see Adam Sandler's kids (Sadie and Sunny) dancing near the left at the ballet recital.   
Nadji Jeter was on Jessie: Basket Case (2015). Adam Sandler had also guest-starred on Jessie (2011) in Jessie: Punched Dumped Love (2013). Cameron Boyce is one of the show's stars.   
    The trailers and television spots show the car wash scene depicting Andy Samberg's cheerleader character saying to Eric Lamonsoff (Kevin James) "Your car is filthy." This particular exchange of words did not make the final cut of the film.   
Adam Sandler tells his daughter a bedtime story during the party scene. He also starred in Bedtime Stories (2008) in which his character would recite bedtime stories to children.   
    Once Adam Sandler was a guest on the show Jessie (2011) which featured Cameron Boyce who plays his son in this movie.   
    Adam Sandler's character is a father in this movie. He also played a father in Big Daddy.  ]
