[
Samantha Morton was originally the voice of Samantha. She was present on the set with Joaquin Phoenix every day. After the filming wrapped and Spike Jonze started editing the movie he felt like something was not right. With Morton's blessing he decided to recast the role and Scarlett Johansson was brought and replaced Morton re-recording all the dialogue.   
Amy Adams said writer/director Spike Jonze would essentially lock her and Joaquin Phoenix in a room together for an hour or two every other day and make them talk to each other. Jonze did this so that the actors could get to know each other better. Adams credits this for her and Phoenix's close friendship.   
    Most of the city backgrounds especially the ones featuring skyscrapers are actually filmed in Shanghai. You can see many very identifiable skyscrapers such as the Shanghai World Financial Center. There are even Chinese signs if you look carefully.   
    Stuck in the editing process with his early 150-minute cut Spike Jonze asked Steven Soderbergh to edit it down with his instincts. Soderbergh came back within 24 hours with a 90-minute cut which helped Jonze make the final version which ran 126 minutes.   
    Director Spike Jonze so loved his role as Alien Child that he would often give notes to his editor and producer in character.   
    This is the only movie Spike Jonze has written as well as directed completely from his own original script.   
    The airplane sculpture shown in a square outside Pacific Design Center was entirely made in CGI. There's no such sculpture on the real location in West Hollywood.   
    During some of the more emotional scenes Amy Adams would sing songs from famous musicals like "Annie" and "The Rocky Horror Picture Show" in order to cheer herself up. Eventually Joaquin Phoenix would join in and they would sing together. However they stopped after they saw Spike Jonze filming them.   
    Most of the scenes in the movie contain either the colors red or yellow or the combination of both.   
    Charlie Kaufman did some uncredited screenwriting on the film.   
    One legacy of Samantha Morton's casting is the name of Theodore's operating system. Both lead female roles take the same name as their lead actresses Amy from actress Amy Adams and Samantha from Morton but since she had to be re-cast at the last minute the OS's name stayed Samantha.   
Woody Allen was a big influence on the film's script. "One of the movies I watched when I was writing Her (2013) was Crimes and Misdemeanors (1989) because that script is so incredibly written" Jonze explained. "There's a lot of talking about the idea of what the movie is about but mostly the characters are plowing through the story and taking you through the story with their decisions. That was really inspiring."   
Spike Jonze said he met with the design team behind The High Line an elevated park on Manhattan's West Side to discuss the futuristic look of his Her (2013). He also revealed that he was inspired by the colors at Jamba Juice.   
    When Samantha is helping Theo at work with proof-reading of some letters she says ".. but I'm not much of a poet so I think I might have messed them up a bit". This may be a reference to an Alan Turing paper on Computing and Artificial Intelligence in which he proposes a possible test of a computer's intelligence by posing questions which the computer answers. He proposes the following question and answer as an example: Q: Please write me a sonnet on the subject of the Forth Bridge. A: Count me out on this one. I never could write poetry.   
    Sofia Coppola won the 2003 Best Original Screenplay Oscar for "Lost in Translation" which was loosely inspired by her relationship with her then-husband Spike Jonze (played by Giovanni Ribisi in the film). Ten years later Jonze would win the same award for "Her;" both films star Scarlett Johansson.   
Chris Cooper filmed a few scenes but his role ended up completely cut from the final movie.   
Carey Mulligan was originally cast but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts. She was replaced by Rooney Mara.   
    When Spike Jonze wrote the first draft he didn't know the title of the movie and was about to FedEx it to a couple of people to read. He put "Untitled Rick Howard Project" on the cover. It then "went out to [Spike's] agent Warner Brothers and then from that point on for a year and a half every email every contract was regarding 'Untitled Rick Howard Project' and no one knew who Rick Howard was". Rick Howard is one of four partners in Girl Skateboards with Spike Jonze. Spike has said he would drive up to the studio the security guard would stop him and he would say "I'm with Rick Howard." The security guard would say "You're with Rick Howard? OK go on."   
Scarlett Johansson previously voiced an operating system dating her male owner in "Robot Chicken: Donkey Punch (2.19)"(2005).   
    In the movie Theo is shown looking at a Maurice Sendak sketch which is dated 3-5-07. Jonze was working with him at that time.   
    The apartment scenes have all been filmed on location. In order to get the best lighting conditions possible Dutch cinematographer Hoyte van Hoytema decided to change all windows surrounding the apartment on the 34th floor. Additionally he decided to install large mirrors on the helicopter platform of the skyscraper across the street. This gave him the possibility to bounce back sunlight into the apartment.   
    The film takes place in 2017 and 2077.   
    Cinematographer Hoyte van Hoytema has a cameo and can be seen in the beginning of the party scene.   
    A sign can be seen behind Theo while walking down the streets that reads "brunner" styled in the iconic Blade Runner font.   
Her (2013) is dedicated to the memories of actor James Gandolfini author Maurice Sendak cinematographer Harris Savides and musician-filmmaker Adam Yauch. (All four had worked with director Spike Jonze in some capacity over the last 20 years.)   
Samantha Morton who voiced Samantha during the film's production and was replaced by Scarlett Johansson after principal photography wrapped is credited as an associate producer on the movie.   
    No one is seen to be wearing a belt at any point during the film.   
Chris Cooper who was cut from the film altogether is thanked in the end credits. So too are Catherine Keener Nicole Holofcener Bennett Miller and Steven Soderbergh among others. As Mark Harris revealed in the recent New York Magazine cover story on Her (2013) Jonze asked Soderbergh to put together his own cut of the film though the final edit belonged to Jonze and his editors Eric Zumbrunnen and Jeff Buchanan.   
    Rooney Mara and Joaquin Phoenix have worked together in Her (2013) Mary Magdalene (2018) and Don't worry He won't get far on foot (2018). They started dating during the production of Mary Magdalene in 2016.   
    Chosen by The Film Society of Lincoln Center as the featured film to close its prestigious New York Film Festival on October 13 2013 in NYC.   
    Comedian Pete Holmes had a role but was cut out in the final cut.   
    Samantha is the name of a text-to-speech setting on Macintosh computers that closely resembles the voice of pre-iOS7 Siri Apple's virtual assistant for iPhone.   
    The only Best Picture Oscar nominee that year to be also nominated for Best Song.   
    The first 'Spike Jonze' film to not be composed by longtime collaborator 'Carter Burwell'.   
    The only Best Picture Oscar nominee that year not to be nominated in any of the acting categories.   
    The second of two films that Spike Jonze had directed in the last 11 years the first being Where the Wild Things Are (2009).   
    The first time Portia Doubleday and Rooney Mara are in the same movie since Youth in Revolt (2009).   
    Two former "Saturday Night Live" cast members have their voices featured in Her (2013) as does one of Jonze's "Adaptation" co-stars.  ]
