[
    In the movie commentary it is mentioned the town at the end with the fair is loosely based on a real town known as Sighisoara Romania. Sighisoara is also known as the birthplace of Vlad the Impaler the real Count Dracula and is the only inhabited citadel in Europe outside Corsica (where all the citadels are inhabited).   
    Near the beginning of the movie when the hotel guests are first seen arriving Dracula (Adam Sandler) mentions that the hotel has been in operation since 1898. It is also shown that Mavis' mother was killed by a mob in approximately 1895 (based on a family portrait showing Mavis at around one-year-old with both of her parents). Bram Stoker's Dracula was written in 1896 and released in 1897. So this movie actually uses a chronological order following the original Dracula story as if it were a telling of true events.   
    (At around ten minutes) Among the decorations on the wall of Mavis' room is a poster that very clearly resembles her real-life voice actress Selena Gomez.   
    (At around five minutes) The license plate on Dracula's hearse is Romanian. This is correct as Transylvania is now part of Romania.   
    (At around one hour and twenty minutes) At the end of the movie during Mavis' birthday party the label on the record on the turntable reads "Oh Who said so - Sung by - Mr. Charles Penrose." This was a real pre-World War I record.   
    In the beginning of the movie during the Columbia Pictures logo The Torch Lady turns into Mavis as a bat. You know it's Mavis not Dracula because Dracula has red eyes in bat form while Mavis has blue eyes.   
    In an early version of the story Murray was going to have a song and dance number with his sidekicks the Mummettes.   
Miley Cyrus was cast as Mavis but she withdrew to focus on other projects so she was replaced by Selena Gomez.   
    Everyone on the plane that Johnny is in wears dark clothing and Johnny is the only one with bright colors.   
    Several characters resemble the actors who provide the voices.   
    This movie had been in development since 2006 when Anthony Stacchi and David Feiss were set to direct the film. In 2008 Jill Culton took over the directing position and around 2010 Christopher Jenkins with Todd Wilderman. In February 2011 Genndy Tartakovsky took over as the sixth director to direct his feature film debut.   
    The film was released on September 28th which is World Rabies Day.   
    "Jonathan is pretty much based on who I was in high school" Samberg says. "Super positive in the face of adversity even maybe when he shouldn't be."   
    Although we cannot see Griffin David Spade assures that "He's extremely handsome and has a killer body. At least that's what he tells me."   
    Dracula The Invisible man The Mummy Frankenstein and The Werewolf were influenced by the monster universe set between 1930-1940 and are brought together in this film.   
    This was the nineteenth highest grossing film of 2012.   
    On playing Eunice Fran Drescher said "Every time I came in to record they always wanted me to sound a little gruffer a little more obnoxious a little more annoying."   
    Feature film directing debut of Genndy Tartakovsky.   
    First animated feature for Robert Smigel. Although he did do some voice work in several television shows and television movies.   
    The second animated feature film for Adam Sandler (the first being Eight Crazy Nights (2002)).   
    The idea was to take iconic monsters and reshape them. Director Tartakovsky says "We had to stay true to the characters but we wanted a fun movie with monsters not a scary movie."   
    Typically animated films have actors and actresses record their dialogue separately but Tartakovsky wanted Sandler James Spade and Buscemi together to record like it was live-action.   
    Is the only film in the franchise to not feature Keegan-Michael Key who replaced CeeLo Green as the voice of Murray following Green's arrest after the release of the first film.   
David Spade's fourth theatrically released animated film after The Rugrats Movie (1998) The Emperor's New Groove (2000) and Racing Stripes (2005).   
    The valet is the Headless Horseman from The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.   
    This movie grossed a whopping 358375603 at the worldwide box-office.   
    The photo of Dracula and his wife holding Baby Mavis is in Hotel Transylvania 2 (2015) next to Mavis' bed when she is pregnant but the image is flipped.   
    The second Sony Animation Andy Samberg movie after _Cloudy with A Chance Of Meatballs (2009)_.   
Jon Lovitz' fourth theatrically released animated film. The others being The Brave Little Toaster (1987) An American Tail: Fievel Goes West (1991) and Cats & Dogs (2001).   
    It is a staple of classic horror films that the villagers are always armed with pitch forks and torches.   
    Wayne and Wanda have no idea how many boy pups they have. Winnie is their only girl.   
Kevin James' second animated film after Barnyard (2006).   
    Grossing 169700110 Worldwide this is Sony Animation's highest grossing film and one of the studio's six films to gross over one hundred million dollars worldwide. The other five being Hotel Transylvania 2 (2015) (148313048) The Smurfs (2011) (142614158) Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs (2009) (124870275) Cloudy with a Chance of Meatballs 2 (2013) (119793567) and Angry Birds (2016) (107509366).   
    Drac's robes are similar to Demongo's a villain in Genndy Tartakovsky's Samurai Jack (2001).   
    Though Adam Sandler stars and co-Executive Produces this movie it isn't associated with his Happy Madison production company.   
    This was Sony Pictures Animation's ninth movie.   
    Producer Michelle Murdocca says "Sony Pictures Animation's style is to not have a house style. We give our directors the latitude to bring with them the style of the movie they're creating."   
    Animation legend Genndy Tartakovsky made his feature film directorial debut with this movie.   
    Tartakovsky and Sandler wanted to redefine Dracula for a new generation. A kinder gentler Prince of Darkness.   
    "Dracula is just like any dad" says Sandler. "He's overprotective controlling manipulative and slightly insane but it all comes from a good place: fear of his daughter getting hurt."   
    Sandler's Dracula films have grossed over one billion dollars worldwide.   
    The address for the hotel is 666 Transylvania Lane Umbre Romania. It can be seen on the back of the itineraries that Dracula hands out to guests.   
    Spade became friends with Sandler during his five-year stint on Saturday Night Live (1975).   
    Designer Carlos Grangel who designed Murray the mummy did all his concept art on the back of old cereal boxes because the bright colors inspire him.   
    Murray the mummy was originally supposed to be tall skinny and slight but Animator Carlos Grangel made him into a hilarious bouncy round ball a with a giant mouth and a slit for eyes.   
    The designers made Murray's eyes using three overlapping spheres of different sizes.   
    In terms of design Tartakovsky wanted a very expressive movie. He wanted the characters to be able to go from "cartoony and funny" to "subtle and very humanistic expressions."   
    Designers used Sandler's vocal performance to help shape the design of Dracula. Sandler plays Dracula as "big and broad but he can also get really quiet and serene."   
    Lovitz says "Quasimodo is based on Julia Child... If she were an evil man... And short... With a hunchback... But still French"   
    Designer Carlos Grangel created the mariachi skeletons to honor and pay tribute to the Mexican Day of the Dead holiday.   
    Based on the design the hotel lobby would be one hundred seventy-five feet long.   
    The first edition of Bram Stoker's Dracula was released in 1897.   
    Traditional CG animation focuses on making everything physically realistic but Tartakovsky wanted a classic 2-D animation sensibility.   
    Andy Samberg co-wrote and performed the song "Sweet 118" in his office at Saturday Night Live (1975) while Producer Michelle Murdocca listened on the phone.   
    Eunice's hair was inspired by a Brillo pad.   
    The fly is voiced by former Saturday Night Live (1975) regular Chris Parnell.   
    The left big toe on Frank is attached incorrectly.   
    Designer Carter Goodrich designed Griffin's glasses after the one he wears.   
    The werewolf pups were made from only four original designs.   
    There are 1.3 million fireflies in this sequence.   
    The technique used to create the gremlins George and Gina's sweaters using short curly hair is the same technique they used to create Arthur's sweater in Arthur Christmas (2011).   
    In some shots there are as many as twenty-five million blades of grass.   
    The other half of Winnie's pacifier is a bone.   
    The character animation alone utilized ninety-plus animators at Sony Pictures Imageworks.   
    The Visual Effects Department utilized around three hundred people with whole departments dedicated to animating clothing hair or effects.   
    According to designers the hotel boasts one thousand two hundred fifty rooms nine hundred fifty of which are actual guest rooms.   
    Early in the film Jonathan tells Dracula "don't be a grandfather". Ironically in Hotel Transylvania 2 (2015) he and Mavis have a baby which of course makes Dracula a grandfather.   
    During the closing "You're My Zing" number Jonathan refers to Simba and Nala from The Lion King (1994). This is a rare instance of a rival animation studio making a direct reference to a Disney film.   
    During one of the of the sequences in the forest one of the trees has a spiderweb and the spider's body looks like a skull similar to the recurring Skulltulla monsters from the The Legend of Zelda videogames.   
Rebecca Sugar creator of Steven Universe (2013) had worked on this film creating storyboards.   
    Near the city of Brasov is Bran Castle which was built in 1377. The locals call it "Dracula's Castle" as it is said to be Bram Stoker's inspiration for his novel.   
    Carter Goodrich designed Frankenstein to be a massive hulking guy with "huge shoes the size of Volkswagen Beetles".   
    "Frank seems like a big tough guy but there are times when he goes to pieces" says Kevin James. "I mean literally."   
    Tartakovsky was hand-selected by George Lucas and Lucasfilm Ltd. in 2003 to create Star Wars: Clone Wars (2003) a twenty-five episode "micro series".   
    Transylvania is located in the central region of Romania and is associated with vampire lore largely due to Bram Stoker's Dracula.   
    The plot for this movie is similar to same plot for Monsters Inc. (2001). Both of these films featured Steve Buscemi.   
    Dracula is the indisputable leader of monsters and ironically his strength dominance charisma and over-controlling nature make him an excellent hotel manager.   
    The only film in the Franchise to not release the same year as a Jurassic World film. Hotel Transylvania 2 (2015) released the same year as Jurassic World (2015) and Hotel Transylvania 3: Summer Vacation (2018) released the same year as Jurassic World: Fallen Kingdom (2018).   
    The Columbia Lady turns into a vampire bat. The bat is Mavis.   
    Quasimodo is the hunchbacked Frenchman famed for ringing bells and hiding out in Notre Dame cathedrals.   
    "We can have a character zip on or off camera do a crazy scramble and defy gravity" all traditionally no-no's in CG animation.   
    The population of Transylvania is approximately five million Germans and Hungarians.   
    Nerd Dracula is played by Robert Smigel who co-wrote the screenplay for this movie.   
    Dracula has a very strict no humans rule at his hotel. Yet technically at least two humans are frequently there. Quasimodo is a hunchbacked human yet also apparently loves cooking humans. Likewise the Invisible Man is also entirely human. Being invisible did not change his species.   
    The Wolf Man and his wife are named Wayne and Wanda. Coincidentally these are also the names of a singing duo who appeared in the first season of The Muppet Show (1976). CeeLo Green (voice of the Mummy) recorded a Christmas song and accompanying video with the Muppets the same year that this movie was released.   
    Quasimodo's pet rat is named Esmeralda after the Gypsy heroine of "The Hunchback of Notre Dame".   
    Samberg also worked with Adam Sandler on That's My Boy (2012) and Grown Ups 2 (2013).   
    The multi-headed Hydra is a monster from Greek mythology and made an appearance in Jason and the Argonauts (1963).   
    Hotel Transylvania is known the world over as a lavish five-stake resort and the world's foremost safest vacation spot for monsters of every sort.   
    Murray is a former entertainer to the great Pharaohs of Egypt and lives most of the year deep inside an Egyptian tomb.   
    Genndy Tartakovsky continued his success with the popular Samurai Jack (2001) and as an animation director for The Powerpuff Girls (1998).   
    Tartakovsky also conceptualized and storyboarded the final action sequence for Iron Man 2 (2010).   
    Steve Buscemi has appeared with Adam Sandler in numerous films.   
    They made Dracula big and broad on top but with skinny little legs and tiny feet making him a "seven-foot guy with a commanding presence."   
    The screenplay was written by Peter Baynham and Robert Smigel.   
    Peter Baynham also co-wrote and Executively Produced Sony Pictures/Aardman Animation's Arthur Christmas (2011).   
    Dan Hageman and Kevin Hageman co-wrote the story for this movie and co-wrote the screenplay for The Lego Movie (2014).   
    This movie was scored by Mark Mothersbaugh who started out in the alternative rock group DEVO.   
    The animation crew worked long hours and ate a lot of snacks. It's estimated they ate over six hundred forty Twinkies over the course of production.   
    Andy Samberg voices Jonathan the hapless human in a hotel filled with monsters.   
    Count Dracula is voiced by Adam Sandler who also served as co-Executive Producer.   
    Adam Sandler joined Saturday Night Live (1975) in 1990 and subsequently broke into feature films.   
    The Venus Fly Trap is a carnivorous plant that traps insects in what is called a "leaf-blade". Once trapped the plant slowly digests the insect.   
    Steve Buscemi voices the Wolf-Man Wayne.   
    David Spade is the voice of Griffin the Invisible Man.   
    Molly Shannon voices Wanda Wayne's wife and kindly mother to a small army of crazy wolf pups.   
    Shannon spent six seasons on Saturday Night Live (1975) and is known for Superstar (1999) Mary Katherine Gallagher and the hilarious Sally O'Malley.   
    Shrunken heads are typically associated with voodoo and witch doctors.   
    Selena Gomez voices the character of Mavis.   
    Fran Drescher voices Eunice Frankenstein's bossy but loving wife.   
    In 1898 Dracula opened Hotel Transylvania a stylish sanctuary for monsters guaranteed one hundred percent human-free or your money back.   
    Kevin James is the voice behind the gigantic and lovable Frankenstein.   
    Round trip tickets to Transylvania will cost you about fifteen hundred dollars.   
    The Fly (1958) starring Vincent Price is the story of a scientist who accidentally splices his genes with a common house fly leaving him part man and part fly.   
    There is no scientific evidence to support the notion that smelling poopie diapers can ruin your sense of smell.   
    A commercial airliner travels anywhere from five hundred to seven hundred miles per hour (eight hundred to eleven hundred kilometers per hour).   
    The microphone from Mavis' party is the same one seen in The Chubbchubbs (2002); the Oscar-winning short that launched Sony Pictures Animation.   
    Hostess the company that makes Twinkies went out of business in 2012 and then came back in 2016.   
    Molly Shannon and Steve Buscemi appeared in Igor (2008).   
    Quasimodo is voiced by Jon Lovitz.   
    Each of the Sony Pictures Animation films boasts a unique look and style.   
    Adam Sandler (Dracula) was born in Brooklyn New York and started doing stand-up comedy at the age of seventeen.   
    Selena Gomez has also released three albums as well as her own fashion line and fragrance.   
    Vampires are disgusted by the pungent smell of garlic.   
    Zombies are not known for their skill and coordination.   
    Andy Samberg recently completed his final season as a cast member on Saturday Night Live (1975).   
    Kevin James (Frankenstiein) has appeared in Paul Blart: Mall Cop (2009) I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry (2007) Grown Ups (2010) Zookeeper (2011) Grown Ups 2 (2013) and Paul Blart: Mall Cop 2 (2015).   
    Robert Smigel is also famous for his work on Saturday Night Live (1975) and Late Night with Conan O'Brien (1993) where he voiced Triumph the Comic Insult Dog.   
    Quasimodo is quite good at making worm cakes slug soup and scream cheese bagels.   
    Despite the "No Humans Allowed" rule Quasimodo is keen on getting humans back on the menu.   
    Vampires traditionally sleep in coffins.   
    Mark Mothersbaugh also scored 21 Jump Street (2012) and The Lego Movie (2014).   
    Mark Mothersbaugh also appeared as the art teacher on the hit series Yo Gabba Gabba (2007).   
    The romantic teen vampire genre took off with Twilight (2008) based on the book by Stephanie Meyer.   
    Fran Drescher is remembered for her portrayal as the lovable beautiful and sexy Miss Fine on the hit show The Nanny (1993).   
    There is no information as to how many of them are vampires.   
    This is the "zing" moment.   
    Gomez's career took off in 2007 with the success of the Disney Channel hit show Wizards of Waverly Place (2007).   
    Charity and giving back have always been important to Selena Gomez and she is a proud UNICEF Ambassador.   
Jackie Sandler Sadie Sandler: Dracula's wife and the infant version of Mavis are voiced by Adam Sandler's wife and daughter.  ]
