[
    Originally Melissa McCarthy's role was written for a male. Jason Bateman insisted that the part be changed after he saw McCarthy in Bridesmaids.   
    The Motel clerk in Georgia who tells Jason Bateman that "he should treat his wife better because otherwise someone else will" is actually married to Melissa McCarthy in real life.   
Jason Bateman considers the movies Planes Trains & Automobiles (1987) and Midnight Run (1988) to be major influences on this movie.   
    Every car they took except for the original rental car has a crushed can of Red Bull on the dash.   
    After Sandy and Diane purchase the 200 car the scene showing their arrival to St. Louis as they cross a bridge is actually downtown Chattanooga. The tallest buildings and St. Louis Arch were digitally added.   
    Critic Rex Reed drew considerable ire when his review singled out Melissa McCarthy's weight calling her "a hippo" "obese" and "humongous". One of his own many critics was McCarthy's frequent director Paul Feig who cordially invited Reed on Twitter to "go fuck himself".   
    The punch that Diana uses at least twice on Sandy Patterson and on other people in the film is a very dangerous tactic. A punch like that in the larynx is a killing blow breaking the larynx suffocating the person.   
    To many people's surprise this opened at number one at the box office with a gross in excess of 30 million. This was quite an achievement considering that a major winter storm in the Northeast of the USA hit that weekend forcing many roads and even theaters to close.   
    When Sandy first arrives to Miami Florida to catch Diana at the salon the scene starts with an aerial zoom in of a coastline then a short cut to Sandy waiting in the car outside of the salon. The scene tries to depict Winter Park as just a short drive from Miami when in truth Winter Park is a suburban city of Orlando FL about a 5 hour drive outside South Beach.   
    Returned to the number one slot at the box office in its third week of release.   
    In the scene where Sandy and Diane pull up Cornish' employment records the computer screen shows that Cornish had Pag-Ibig no. a GSIS no. a PhilHealth no. and a TIN which are standard Philippine employment membership benefit and tax numbers.   
    Melissa McCarthy' s character does not wear a seatbelt in any of the car scenes with Jason Bateman.   
    The 20th biggest grossing film of 2013.   
Jon Favreau filmed his scenes in 2 days.   
Clark Duke's scenes for the finished film were cut.  ]
