[
    When Jack Reacher's car crashes into some barrels the car accidentally stalled upon the impact but Tom Cruise was luckily able to restart the car before driving off again. Rather than do a retake Christopher McQuarrie decided to leave it in the film as he felt it added to the suspense of the scene.   
Tom Cruise did all of his own stunt driving.   
Rosamund Pike was pregnant with son Solo during the shooting for this film.   
Robert Duvall's character is seen using empty .38 special cartridge cases as ear plugs. This goes back to the 1950s. Since he was an old timer he would have done this.   
    Coincidentally the source novel "One Shot" by Lee Child specifically references (though not by name) the film A Few Good Men (1992) which starred Tom Cruise. In the novel Reacher reflects upon a line of dialogue spoken by Jack Nicholson's character.   
Jai Courtney and Josh Helman had so much trouble with the American accent required for their roles that several planned scenes were scrapped and many of Courtney's lines were dropped from the sides.   
Brad Pitt Hugh Jackman Vince Vaughn Jamie Foxx and Will Smith were considered for the role of Jack Reacher before Tom Cruise was cast.   
    Reacher introduced himself as Aaron Ward and it's obvious that Cash recognizes the name of the 1925 Yankees' second baseman (who really was Aaron Ward). Cash pauses and says the name to confirm. Cash says "Play ball" after Reacher is allowed his practice shot so now the real shooting can take place. That reference to baseball is a tip-off to Reacher that his cover has been blown even before he takes his excellent shots to reveal who he is.   
    The character Jack Reacher from Lee Child's book series is described as 6'5" tall and weighing between two hundred ten and two hundred fifty pounds. Tom Cruise is only 5'7" tall.   
    Christopher McQuarrie stated in an interview in 2015 that the scars referenced and shown on Jack Reacher's body during the introduction to the character were scars earned from his encounters in other Jack Reacher books.   
    Originally titled "One Shot" based on Lee Child's novel of the same name.   
    This marks the blossoming of a strong professional relationship between Christopher McQuarrie and Tom Cruise. Having written the screenplay for Valkyrie (2008) (which Bryan Singer directed) McQuarrie has since penned the script to Cruise's science fiction hit Edge of Tomorrow (2014) wrote and directed Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation (2015) and (as of November 2017) is writing and directing Mission: Impossible Fallout (2018).   
    Reacher asks Helen "Drop me at the auto parts store". When she says "Which one?" he explains that he wants the one that "stands out in your mind as *the* auto part store". In the next sequence the actual auto part store sign is visible: it is called "DeFault Auto Parts".   
    According to Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson who considers himself a fan of Jack Reacher he pursued the role around 2007.   
Tom Cruise and Robert Duvall appeared in Days of Thunder (1990).   
    The film was scheduled to be released on December 21 2012 with its U.S. premiere gala scheduled for December 15. Originally planned at Pittsburgh's Southside Works megaplex on December 15 and to have been attended by the film's stars and Mr. Child the premier was postponed following the Sandy Hook Elementary School shootings which took place on December 14.   
    The "cold shot" talked about in the movie is actually a myth. Many precision shooters agree that "cold bore shot accuracy" is largely a myth.   
Tom Cruise and Rosamund Pike sourced The Thomas Crown Affair (1968) in their quest to capture the right subtle chemistry between their characters.   
    Much has been made in online circles about the obvious prominence of Rosamund Pike's cleavage in several scenes. Truth was Pike was pregnant with her first son during the making of the film so a pronounced cleavage was unavoidable.   
    The bottle of prescription medicine on Barr's nightstand is for zolpidem tartrate. That is a drug used to treat insomnia (by causing sleep). Barr probably suffered from insomnia with his post-war experience.   
    In the source novel "One Shot" by Lee Child the sniper in the beginning of the story refers to his kill zone as "a target rich environment." This is the same phrase used by Tom Cruise in an early scene in Top Gun (1986) when he and Goose enter a nightclub.   
Hayley Atwell Brit Marling and Alexa Davalos screentested for the role of Helen Rodin.   
    The way Reacher cycles the action of the Remington 700 on his 3rd shot during the range scene is how snipers are actually trained to cycle bolt action rifles.   
    The movie playing on the television in Jeb's house is The Big Country (1958) starring Gregory Peck and Burl Ives.   
    Jack's birthday is October 29 the same as Lee Child's.   
    The teaser trailer debuted on Tom Cruise's fiftieth birthday.   
    Lee Child often inserts references to the football club he supports (Aston Villa) into his "Jack Reacher" stories. In "One Shot" there is a character with the surname Barr possibly named after Perry Barr which is an area of Birmingham where Aston Villa originally played and also a character with the surname "Holt" possibly named after the Holte End which is one of the famous stands at Villa Park home of Aston Villa FC.   
    The film cast includes one Oscar winner: Robert Duvall; and four Oscar nominees: Tom Cruise Rosamund Pike Richard Jenkins and Werner Herzog.   
    Despite being one of the highlights of the movie the car chase is not featured in Lee Child's book.   
    Jai Courtney and Tom Cruise who fight each other in the finale have twenty-four years difference in their ages.   
    It is stated that Reacher spent the bulk of his time in the army with the Militay Police. Reacher tells Helen of his investigation into Barr's murders in Iraq. Military Police are not involved in murder investigations. Such crimes fall under the jurisdiction of CID (Criminal Investigation Division) in the Army NCIS (Naval Criminal Investigative Service) in the Navy and Marine Corps and OSI (Office of Special Investigations) in the Air Force.   
    On the wall in District Attorney Rodin's office is a photograph of Rodin shaking hands with former President George W. Bush.   
    Keanu Reeves Colin Farrell Russell Crowe Edward Norton Johnny Depp Cary Elwes Jim Carrey Nicolas Cage Denzel Washington and John Travolta were considered to play Jack Reacher.   
    At Cash's (Robert Duvall's) gun range Reacher mentions that if Cash doesn't help Reacher Cash could lose his gun range. As a threat Reacher asks whether Cash would make a good soccer coach. Duvall played a soccer coach in Kicking & Screaming (2005).   
    Allegedly Reacher had only entered the United Stated twice once to attend West Point and again when he retired from the Army. Cash tells Reacher he once saw him "shoot for the Wimbledon Cup 10 years ago" . . . This is a 1000 yard rifle match shot at Camp Perry Ohio every year and open to all shooters male or female. If he saw Reacher shoot the match then he would have had to go back to the United States again.   
    The weapon Reacher gets from the bad guy at the quarry is a SIG P556 SWAT with an Aimpoint sight.   
    Misconstrued as an error in continuity. When the police break into Barr's house and the detective examines the sleeping drug he lifts it with his right hand. He isn't shown putting it down and in the next motion he starts to bend toward the nightstand a second time. The bottle is seen sitting in the same place as he then picks up Barr's wallet. However the bottle is in a slightly different place and is turned enough to show the label better than in the first shot. This false discrepancy of a continuity error is probably due to the jerky cutting of shots to hasten the pace through the scene.   
    Duvall's character yells "Play ball" at the start of Reacher's three bullet challenge on the shooting range. This mirrors Duvall yelling "Play ball" when he judges three pitches to The Whammer by Roy Hobbs in The Natural (1984).   
Arnold Schwarzenegger Sylvester Stallone Bruce Willis Mel Gibson Harrison Ford Kurt Russell Stephen Lang Ron Perlman Jean-Claude Van Damme Dolph Lundgren Brian Bosworth and Steven Seagal were considered to play Jack Reacher.   
    When Jack Reacher asks Cash (Robert Duvall) for information about Barr at his gun range Cash says "and what if I don't give you the info?" to which Reacher said "maybe you can coach soccer". Duvall coached soccer in Kicking & Screaming (2005).   
    The first draft of the screenplay was written by Josh Olsen.   
    Helen visits one of the victims father Mr. Ferrier. Tom Cruise's character from War of the Worlds (2005) was named Farrier.   
    Reacher mentions James Baer had fired 250000 rds in training during his years as a sniper in the Army. A normal sniper would shoot about 1500 rds a year from his sniper rifle.    
Lee Child: The film's source novelist as a Police Desk Sergeant and the cop that gives Jack Reacher his personal belongings back when he leaves jail.   
    The salesman behind the counter selling the watch to Nancy Holt (the blonde female victim) was Tom Cruise's stand-in for the movie.   
    The theatrical trailer features a large mine explosion that does not occur in the film. A New Zealand customer was successfully refunded after making a complaint that the film trailer was misleading.   
    Body Count: twenty-two.   
    The book and the film contain numerous homages to Frederick Forsyth's novel "The Day of The Jackal" (Lee Child has stated that the book was one of the main influences in his career): Helen and her father's surname "Rodin" is named after Colonel Marc Rodin one of the three OAS men behind the fictional plot to assassinate President de Gaulle. The Jackal has no real name and goes around in a common alias like Zec. Jack and The Jackal move around and have no permanent places. The bullets used in the assassination attempts are custom made. Like the Jackal Jack used four bullets in target practice. Both men use a real bullet on the fourth shot. Charlie's (Jai Courtney's) smothering Sandy to death is the same way as how The Jackal smothered Madame de Montpelier as to cover their tracks. Just like St. Clair who was indirectly feeding information to the OAS Emerson was revealed to be a mole in the enforcement side.  ]
