[
Stanley Tucci the only non-British cast member adopted a British accent to fit in. He said he had long wanted to perform with a British accent and this film gave him the chance to do so.   
    A golden harp can be seen twice throughout the movie--once in a flashback when a giant is stealing it and again when Jack is in the room with all the treasure. In the Jack and the Beanstalk fairy tale a harp that plays by itself is one of the items Jack steals from the giant.   
    Creating the giants took four main steps. The first step was using performance capture which was used to capture the actor's facial/body movements and render them in a real-time virtual environment. The second step took place during principal photography where Simulcam technology was used to help the human characters virtually interact with the giants that were rendered earlier. The third step was a second performance capture shoot to adjust giants' movements to seamlessly fit the live-action performances. The final step involved putting the finishing touches on the giant's animation skin hair and clothing and composition in the shots.   
Ewan McGregor's character states that he "has a bad feeling about this." This phrase is a staple of the Star Wars films in which McGregor as Obi-Wan Kenobi says twice. Cast members Warwick Davis and Ralph Brown also appeared with him in his first Star Wars film Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999).   
    Although not used in the theatrical release Julie Andrews recorded "The Giants Fable" for the opening sequence for the film. This voice-over can be found in the deleted scenes on the Blu-Ray special features.   
Bryan Singer had to tone down the VFX to keep the film age-appropriate for children.   
    It is estimated that Legendary Pictures lost between 125 and 140 million on the film.   
    Screenwriter Darren Lemke first proposed the idea of updating the "Jack and the Beanstalk" fairytale in 2005. Lemke described the script as "a male-oriented story of a boy becoming a man" and drew a parallel between Jack and "Star Wars"'s Luke Skywalker.   
Jamie Campbell Bower was considered for the role of Jack but he was unable to audition due to a broken ankle injury suffered while filming Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1 (2010).   
    Director Bryan Singer was interested in using motion-capture VFX for the giants saying "It takes you back to play-acting as a kid in your living room because you are running around having to imagine that you are in Gantua and there are all these giant things when there's nothing there. In that way it's fascinating."   
Eleanor Tomlinson based her characterization on Sigourney Weaver's character Ripley in Aliens (1986).   
    Creating the beanstalk involved two main requirements: set extension for shots of the actors interacting with the beanstalk (shot against a bluescreen) and complete CG renderings for shots of the beanstalk growing and extending from Earth into the world of the giants.   
Adelaide Kane Lily Collins and Juno Temple auditioned for the role of Isabelle.   
    The DVD deleted scenes have a scene with Jack's uncle (Christopher Fairbank) where Jack meets up with him and brings him partly up to date.   
    The soldiers played by Byron Coll and Aaron Jackson had their roles cut from the finished film but they are still credited in the end titles.   
Alex Pettyfer Aaron Johnson and Aneurin Barnard were considered for the role of Jack.   
John Kassir plays Bill Nighy's other smaller head.   
    Ian McShane and Eddie Marsan both also starred together in the Showtime series Ray Donovan (2013).   
    The car park used in set was the field used in "A field in England (2013)"   
    The film's release date was pushed back 9 months to accommodate the amount of special effects work required.   
    The film first started development in 2005 with D.J. Caruso being hired to direct.   
    When Bryan Singer came on board as replacement for D.J. Caruso as director in 2009 he hired his friend and frequent collaborator Christopher McQuarrie to tackle another take on the script.   
Ian McKellen: One of the storytellers' voices heard at the end of the film.   
Warwick Davis: as Hamm a carnival performer.   
    At the start of the final battle Giant General Fallon addresses his four lieutenants by name: Fee Fye Foe and Fumm. These names together are the first line of the giant's singsong chant in the traditional "Jack and the Beanstalk" story.   
    Most tellings of "Jack and the Beanstalk" begin with Jack's mother sending him to sell the family cow. This version supplants mother with uncle and cow with horse a change acknowledged in the humorous voice-over towards the end.  ]
