[
    While filming at Big Water in Utah the crew accidentally discovered a 60 foot long sauropod skeleton. The state's land management bureau took over.   
    The film probably holds the record for the longest time in "development hell": 79 years. Preproduction first started in 1931 when Robert Clampett director of 'Looney Tunes' approached author Edgar Rice Burroughs to make an animated feature out of the first book in the series "A Princess of Mars." Had plans gone through 'John Carter' could have become America's first animated feature beating Walt Disney's Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937). It finally left development hell in January 2010 when filming officially started in London.   
    Financially the film was considered one of the largest box office losses in Disney history. Even though the film performed stronger than expected outside the US it contributed to Disney's Studio Entertainment division reporting an 84 million loss in the first quarter of 2012. Such a large loss was attributed to issues with marketing management changes at the studio and a lack of merchandising normally associated with such a large budget film. As a result any plans for the two sequels that were already in development prior to the film's release were scrapped.   
Willem Dafoe accepted the role of Tars Tarkas because he thought it was interesting for him to act while wearing pajamas and walking on stilts.   
    "A Princess of Mars" was originally published as "Under the Moons of Mars" by Norman Bean (Edgar Rice Burroughs' pseudonym) in The All-Story (six pulp magazine issues February - July 1912). Burroughs was originally afraid that he might be ridiculed for writing such a tale so he decided to use a pen name. The pseudonym was supposed to be a pun "Normal Bean" (as in "I'm a normal being") to reassure people but the man who typeset the text thought it was a mistake so he changed it to "Norman". However Burroughs' fears turned out to be unfounded: the story and its sequels collectively known as the "Barsoom series" were almost as popular (and arguably more influential) as those of his most famous creation Tarzan.   
    HIDDEN MICKEY: One of Dejah's red tattoos on her right arm. It is plainly visible as she takes Sab Than's hand before the wedding and as she is about to drink from the cup of water.   
Robert Zemeckis turned down the chance to direct quipping "George already pillaged all of that" with the "Star Wars" films. In other words most of the best elements of Edgar Rice Burroughs' Mars fantasies had already been "borrowed" for George Lucas' space operas.   
    The rights to the novels have since reverted back to the Edgar Rice Burroughs estate which is still game to try to turn the books into a successful movie franchise.   
    The film's final budget was some 20 million more than James Cameron spent on Avatar (2009).   
    For each of the super jumps that Taylor Kitsch performed he was attached to a harness that allowed him to free-fall at a speed of 80 mph. Kitsch apparently found it unpleasant.   
Andrew Stanton has already confessed that he isn't too satisfied with how the movie turned out. He confessed that part of the problems came from a first-time live action director being "drunk with power" after receiving too much money and creative control.   
    The first "John Carter" story by Edgar Rice Burroughs made its debut in 1912 in a magazine serial. Thus the 2012 feature film marks the centenary (100th anniversary) of the character's first appearance.   
    The book was written in Utah and much of the film was shot in Utah almost 100 years apart.   
    In the make-believe culture in the movie the two moons orbiting Mars/Barsoom are called Thuria and Cluros. In serious astronomy they are called Phobos and Deimos (Greek words for Fear and Terror).   
    In the book Carter and the natives were nude.   
    In the arena Carter fights a pair of white apes. Tarzan - the most famous creation of the same author Edgar Rice Burroughs - is sometimes nicknamed "white ape" in the book (although the name "Tarzan" itself means "white-skin" not "white ape" in a fictitious language).   
    About 1800 costumes were designed--383 yards of cloth material were used to design the Thern costumes while Dejah's wedding dress cuffs and crown had 120000 Swarovski crystals attached by hand.   
    The film was originally titled and marketed as "John Carter of Mars" but director Andrew Stanton removed "of Mars" from the opening credits and promotional material to make it more appealing to a broader audience stating that the film is an "origin story... It's about a guy becoming John Carter of Mars." The entire title "John Carter of Mars" is displayed during the end credits.   
    Charlton Heston's real name was John Carter.   
    The change in title from "A Princess of Mars" to "John Carter of Mars" and later simply to "John Carter" is the subject of some controversy. Conflicting reasons given include that the Disney marketing department or director Andrew Stanton wanted to appeal to a broader audience or that the studio had hoped to create a film series with the "John Carter" banner title. Industry lore also suggests that films with "Mars" in the title tend to under perform financially most notably Mars Needs Moms (2011) which was also distributed by Disney and proved a colossal flop for the studio. Ironically "John Carter" would prove to be the biggest financial disappointment for Disney since "Mars Needs Moms."   
    In the arena John Carter is chained to a rock. The top of the spike that is in the rock is the shape of the D in the Walt Disney logo.   
    The movie's lead couple Taylor Kitsch and Lynn Collins both starred in X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009) Kitsch as Gambit and Collins as Kayla Silverfox.   
Andrew Stanton often rejected marketing ideas from the studio according to those who worked on the film and used his own ideas instead. For example he ignored criticism that using Led Zeppelin's "Kashmir" a song recorded in 1974 in the trailer would make it seem less current to the contemporary younger audiences that the film was seeking. He also chose billboard imagery that failed to resonate with prospective audiences did not include the name of writer Edgar Rice Burroughs in advertisement left out most of the romantic subplot from the trailer that might have attracted female moviegoers and put together a preview reel that did not get a strong reception from a convention audience.   
    Upon getting the director's position Andrew Stanton told Disney "I'm not gonna get it right the first time I'll tell you that right now."   
    When Jon Favreau learned that Andrew Stanton had picked up the film he gave him a call congratulating him and requesting that he could play a Thark. Favreau voices a "Thark Bookie".   
    Disney was sceptical about Andrew Stanton directing. He had never directed a live-action film before and wanted to make the film without any major stars whose names could guarantee an audience at least on opening weekend. The screenplay was seen as confusing and difficult to follow. But since Stanton had overcome similar preproduction doubts to make Finding Nemo (2003) and WALL·E (2008) into hits the studio approved him as director.   
Andrew Stanton lobbied the Walt Disney Studios to reacquire the rights from Burroughs' estate. "Since I'd read the books as a kid I wanted to see somebody put it on the screen" he explained. He then lobbied Disney heavily for the chance to direct the film pitching it as "Indiana Jones on Mars."   
Ray Harryhausen was planning a stop-motion adaptation in the 1950s.   
    Dedicated to the memory of Steve Jobs.   
    This is the third live-action franchise under the Walt Disney banner to earn a PG-13 rating in the United States. The first was Pirates of the Caribbean: The Curse of the Black Pearl (2003) and its sequels. The second was Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time (2010).   
    Studio executive Rich Ross resigned his position as Disney Studios leader weeks after Disney predicted they'd lose 200 million on the project. Although Ross had become head of the studio while the movie was already in development he took the blame because he could have stopped the movie or limited its budget but instead he approved the 260 million dollar budget that director Andrew Stanton had requested.   
    In Arizona John Carter's bad behavior lands him in a jail operated by the United States Army's 7th Cavalry. This was the same regiment that George Armstrong Custer served in.   
    The music in the first theatrical trailer uses two instrumental arrangements of "Kashmir" by Led Zeppelin. The first (starting at 0:53) was performed by Australian/British string quartet Bond the second (starting at 1:25) was performed by Corner Stone Cues (this arrangement is called "Ten Years Kashmir Mvt II (Orch Choir & Perc Mix))".   
    It is generally believed that inadequate marketing of the film was the main factor responsible for its commercial failure. Director Andrew Stanton had been given full creative control over the movie as well as its marketing campaign but according to insiders he greatly overestimated the universal appeal and popularity of the character John Carter with a contemporary audience. Due to Stanton's inexperience with life action movies and slow pace of filming there were simply no big special effects shots available when it was time to create the first teaser trailer. Stanton purposely left out references to his earlier work at Pixar (not wanting people to think that it was a children's film) and to the works of author Edgar Rice Burroughs from the teaser. As a big fan of the book series he wanted to stay as true to the source material as possible; to avoid marketing the film as purely an action blockbuster he focused on its origin story rather than the action and special effects much against the wishes of studio executives. When the teaser left audiences unimpressed the studio was set to create a second trailer that would focus on both the action and the story in order to appeal to a large audience. However due to Stanton using his veto on many shots the resulting trailer contained mostly action and special effects shot that were felt to be too reminiscent of the Star Wars saga. As the awareness of the movie among prospective audiences was shown to increase prior to its release their interest declined resulting in a disappointing 30 million gross in the first weekend. With altered trailers the film ultimately fared much better overseas and enjoyed a major success in Russia.   
Mario Kassar had the project at Disney in the 1980s but it was also listed under his development projects during his deal at Paramount in the mid-'90s. In 2004--when the project was still known as "A Princess of Mars" after the book on which it's based--Robert Rodriguez had originally been signed and announced as director and had begun pre-production early that year (it would have been his largest project to date with starting budget reported at 100 million). Rodriguez' most notable contribution was to hire fantasy painter Frank Frazetta (whose most acclaimed works have included striking illustrations of Edgar Rice Burroughs novels most notably the "John Carter on Mars" books) as production designer. However when Rodriguez resigned from the Directors' Guild of America (DGA) the same year (due to a dispute over his film Sin City (2005)) Paramount was forced to replace him. The studio has a long-standing arrangement with the DGA in which only the organization's members may direct Paramount films. He was replaced with Kerry Conran who had just finished Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow (2004). In 2005 Conran left the project and was replaced by Jon Favreau just before the release of Favreau's movie Zathura: A Space Adventure (2005); Favreau was on-board to direct until around August 2006. At that time Paramount chose not to renew the film rights preferring to focus on Star Trek (2009) and Favreau left to work on Iron Man (2008). In January 2007 Disney regained the rights (it had rights to film the story previously: in the 1980s with director John McTiernan) and enlisted Andrew Stanton from Pixar to direct.   
Ciarán Hinds James Purefoy Polly Walker and Nicholas Woodeson also played together in the TV series Rome (2005).   
Tom Cruise was going to star as John Carter in the 1980s when John McTiernan was going to direct.   
    The voice actors for the two Thark candidates for chief have played lead villains in Sam Raimi's Spider-Man movies. Willem Dafoe (Tars Tarkas) played the Green Goblin in Spider-Man (2002) and Thomas Haden Church (Tal Hajus) played the Sandman in Spider-Man 3 (2007).   
    In September 2014 studio president Alan Bergman was asked at a conference if Disney had been able to partially recoup its losses on this and The Lone Ranger (2013) through subsequent release windows or other monetization methods and he responded: "I'm going to answer that question honestly and tell you no it didn't get that much better. We did lose that much money on those movies."   
Andrew Stanton often sought advice from people he had worked with at Pixar on animated films (known as the Braintrust) instead of those with live-action experience working with him. also was quoted as saying "I said to my producers 'Is it just me or do we actually know how to do this better than live-action crews do?'"   
    Director Andrew Stanton's live-action directorial debut.   
Jon Hamm and Josh Duhamel were considered for the role of John Carter.   
Jim Morris noted that although he had less time for pre-production than for any of his usual animated projects the task was nevertheless relatively easy since he had read Burroughs' novels as a child and had already visualized many of their scenes.   
Andrew Stanton denied assertions that he had gone over budget and stated that he had been allowed a longer re-shoot because he had stayed on budget and on time. However he did admit to re-shooting much of the movie  far more of it than is common in live action film making. He attributed that to his animation background.   
    Following the completion of WALL·E (2008) Andrew Stanton visited the archives of Edgar Rice Burroughs Inc. in Tarzana California as part of his research.   
    For decades many people fans and the general public alike associated the Tarzan series of novels with writer Edgar Rice Burroughs with the name of the city of Tarzana California being named after the character. Ironically some fan readers of the Princess of Mars series often ignored the idea that he wrote the Tarzan series. It as even been noted that Burroughs writing dozens upon dozens of novels and hundreds of articles as being a lifetime accomplishment in productivity.   
    The Teaser features the song "My Body is a Cage" originally written by Arcade Fire. The version used in the teaser is by Peter Gabriel released on his 2011 album of cover versions "Scratch My Back".   
    Although being based on the first book of the series A Princess of Mars the film was originally titled John Carter of Mars but Andrew Stanton removed "of Mars" to make it more appealing to a broader audience stating that the film is an "origin story. It's about a guy becoming John Carter of Mars." Stanton planned to keep "Mars" in the title for future films in the series.   
    3 of the main characters were in the tv series Rome.   
Rich Ross Disney's chairman successor to Dick Cook who had originally approved the film for production came from a television background and had no experience with feature films. The studio's new top marketing and production executives had little more.   
    Disney's head of marketing during the production was MT Carney an industry outsider who previously ran a marketing boutique in New York.   
    John Carter is in top 20 George Price's favourite movies.   
David Schwimmer: voice of a Thark.   
    Carter advises his nephew Ned to go and write a book at the end. Ned's full name is Edgar Rice Burroughs the source novel's author.   
    The inscription over Carter's crypt - "Inter Mundos" - is Latin for "Between Worlds". Appropriate since Carter uses the crypt to cross over to Mars and travel between worlds.  ]
