The statues in the jungle set are modeled after the board game pieces in the original film.  , 
    If Dwayne Johnson could play any other role in the film, he'd play Jack Black's character, Bethany. Johnson said, "I know how much fun [Jack] had every day playing a 16-year-old self-obsessed girl."  , 
Jack Black jokes that he was not acting in the scenes when his character was infatuated with Dwayne Johnson's character. He was in fact actually infatuated and the cameras just kept on rolling.  , 
    Johnson and Hart are known for their intensive workout routines, but it was Gillan - whose character is an expert in various martial arts and "dance fighting" - who did the most extensive work with the stunt team to learn the fight choreography for her scenes.  , 
Tom Holland was originally cast as Seaplane McDonough, but had to drop out of the film, due to scheduling conflicts with Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017). So Nick Jonas was cast in his place.  , 
    The film's African jungle setting was shot in Hawaii.  , 
    Mouse Finbar wears a little badge with the picture of a slice of cake and a line going across it, a nod to the fact that his character's weakness is cake. The badge can be seen on the lower left side of his vest.  , 
    Ruby Roundhouse's outfit was influenced by that of Lara Croft, the protagonist of the Tomb Raider video games and movies. Martha comments on how impractical the outfit is to wear in the jungle.  , 
    Jack had a lot of fun as Bethany teaching Karen's character to flirt. "I was teaching her how to flirt and how to work it, runway style. It was like a living organism kind of scene where some of it was on the page, but a lot was just happening in real time."  , 
    Dwayne Johnson found his character of Spencer/Dr. Bravestone all too relatable. At age 16, he resembled a 46-year-old man, standing at 6'4, weighing 245 pounds, and sporting a thick mustache. Despite his bulky exterior, the young Dwayne was very much a vulnerable teen trying to find himself.  , 
    Dwayne pitched the name 'Smolder' to Jake Kasdan via text. "What if his name was Smolder, but he had this unique ability to just Smolder. And he's like, I love it."  , 
    In researching the character of Bethany, Jack Black went to Madison Iseman, asking about her favorite music and TV shows. He watched and listened and got into that head space.  , 
Ser'Darius Blain (Fridge) is actually 30 years old and Nick Jonas (Alex) is 25 years old, while Alex Wolff, Morgan Turner and Madison Iseman (Spencer, Martha and Bethany) range from 18-20 years old.  , 
    According to Jake Kasdan, the one and only person he wanted for each of the lead roles on this film is playing that part.  , 
    Kevin Hart says his backpack was a character unto itself. "It just became the unsung hero, because everything is always directed to my backpack. That was my go-to for any improv, any comedy."  , 
    The open field scene where the cast was chased by cyclists was shot at a ranch in Hawaii, where Jurassic World (2015) was filmed. When the camera is at a particular angle, you can tell exactly what scene from Jurassic World was filmed there.  , 
    The cast members were asked if they were able to sing a part of the song "Welcome To The Jungle," and they all did. Jack Black sang lead vocals, then Dwayne Johnson (The Rock) and Kevin Hart joined him. Jack Black decided to perform Axl Rose's (unforgettable, iconic) scream.  , 
    Alex was playing the video game Twisted Metal (1995) when he encounters the Jumanji game in 1996. Jumanji itself draws from that game with motorcycle-riding goons and a level where the players can choose different vehicles (the transportation shed).  , 
    Alex's tree house was an actual tree house built around a sprawling Banyan tree and hidden in the jungle foliage.  , 
    All the Brantford High School scenes were shot at the same school Goosebumps (2015) was filmed, which also starred Jack Black.  , 
    Karen Gillan thought Ruby's look was a lot of fun, stating "It was interesting to highlight the familiar trope, particularly from the 90s video games, of the way women were portrayed in those games."  , 
    Jack Black says the script in some ways reminded him of John Hughes' classic The Breakfast Club.  , 
    To film the Albino Rhino sequence, the cast spent days harnessed into a full-size, customized helicopter mounted on a special-effects gimbal rig elevated twenty feet in the air.  , 
    As a nod to the original Jumanji, production designer Owen Paterson integrated the board game animal tokens into the ancient temple designs as large vine-covered statues.  , 
    There are several incidents in the film that references Dwayne Johnson's athletic/wrestling career: during the Bazaar scene, while fighting and calling out his actions, Bravestone dispatches one of Van Pelt's henchmen by using his wrestling finisher, the Rock Bottom (a body slam move). Fridge's football jersey reads #94. Johnson was formerly a football player at the University of Miami with his jersey reading #94. Finbar says that Bravestone is 6'5 tall and weighs 270 pounds. Those are Johnson's actual height and weight. At one point, Bravestone refers to himself in third person and the other characters comment about it. One of Johnson's WWE persona "The Rock"'s character traits is speaking about himself in third person, "Do you smell what The Rock is cookin'?" 1996, The year Alex was sucked into the game, was the year 'The Rock" had his first WWE match.  , 
    In 2018, it was announced online that there will be a sequel "Jumanji 2" and that Dwayne Johnson, Karen Gillan, Jack Black and Kevin Hart will return.  , 
    Kevin and Dwayne credit their on screen chemistry to their off screen friendship.  , 
    The stunt team says the Brazilian fighting style Capoeira is probably the most comparable to Ruby's special powers, and that they intended to combine several martial arts techniques to create their own moves - part dancing, part lethal fighting. The final film shows Ruby performing some of these fighting maneuvers while music plays.  , 
    A poster for Uncharted 4: A Thief's End (2016) hangs in Spencer's room, whose score was also composed by Henry Jackman.  , 
Kevin Hart was sick during the filming of the helicopter scene.  , 
    While filming in Hawaii, the crew encountered its fair share of critters. There were sightings of feral pigs, but it was the creepy crawlies that kept the cast and crew on edge - including the stinging pinch of centipedes.  , 
    The original Jumanji (1995) is one of Karen Gillan's favorite films.  , 
    Van Pelt is "actually made up of all the vermin and rodents, the grossest animals you can imagine - they inhabit his body."  , 
    Karen's favorite scene in the film was the dance fighting sequence. "I feel like we created something quite specific and unique. It was like this fun little dance routine and then she just takes out these two guys... I felt really strong."  , 
    Alex's tree house was built by Production Designer Owen Paterson, made up from salvaged and repurposed items found around the island.  , 
    Karen Gillan is from Scotland so she had to employ an American accent in order to play Martha/Ruby Roundhouse.  , 
    Nick Jonas thought the tunnel scene was a lot of fun to shoot. "I got to show Jack Black, Kevin Hart, Karen Gillan, and Dwayne Johnson around a bunch of tunnels to save their lives. It's the kind of stuff you dream about as an actor.  , 
    The football player's nickname, "Fridge," is a nod to American football player William Perry, who was known as "The Refrigerator," or "The Fridge."  , 
    When Jack Black was a child, he acted in a 1982 television commercial for the classic Atari 2600 and Intellivison video game called Pitfall, in which he wore a safari hat. In this film, he wears a similar style safari hat.  , 
    The city of Atlanta, Georgia, provides the suburban locations for the Brantford scenes as well as sets for various jungle locations: the bazaar scene, the Jaguar statue, and the maze of booby-trapped tunnels.  , 
    The game Spencer was shown playing in his bedroom at the beginning of the movie was Street Fighter V.  , 
    The jungle sequences were filmed on location in Oahu, Hawaii.  , 
    The role of Bethany posed an interesting comedic challenge for Jack Black. When asked, he stated "Damn, I've got to pump my game up."  , 
    When the trailers first came out, Ruby's outfit created some sort of controversy. Karen Gillan who played Ruby in the movie, admitted that the costume was too sexual; but she exclaimed in an interview, that was the point. She wouldn't have done the movie and worn the costume if there was no point attached to it, also a different actress would've been cast as the avatar.  , 
    Colin Hank's father Tom Hanks was considered for the role of Alan Parrish in the original Jumanji (1995).  , 
    Out of respect for the wildlife, the animal-skinned wardrobe items worn by Van Pelt's goons were made from synthetic materials.  , 
    The original children's book "Jumanji" by Chris Van Allsburg was published in 1981.  , 
    The 40-foot high Jaguar statue head was made from a combination of sculpted foam and concrete adorned with plaster paint to create the aged stone look.  , 
    Upon looking at the 1995 feature with fresh eyes, producer Matt Tolmach "immediately felt there were more Jumanji stories to be told."  , 
    Dr. Bravestone's utility belt was partly based on the belt that Nathan Drake from the Uncharted series wears.  , 
Dwayne Johnson coincidentally starred in The Rundown (2003), which was originally called "Welcome to the Jungle", a title that it retained in other countries.  , 
    Karen Gillan's five tips on surviving the jungle are to be fit, wear appropriate clothing, learn to start a fire, learn to fish, and learn to build tiny huts out of leaves.  , 
    This was the second collaboration between Dwayne Johnson and Kevin Hart. The first was Central Intelligence (2016).  , 
James Newton Howard was originally announced as the film's composer, but had to leave due to schedule conflicts.  , 
    Although they do not share any screentime, this film reunites Colin Hanks and Jack Black, who both starred in the comedy Orange County (2002). Director Jake Kasdan also helmed both films. The two actors also shared scenes together in Peter Jackson's King Kong (2005).  , 
    This film is directed by Jake Kasdan, son of Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981) writer Lawrence Kasdan. The previous film Jumanji (1995) was directed by Joe Johnston, who worked on the visual effects for Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981).  , 
Karen Gillan posted a photo to her official Instagram page of herself and her personal trainer, Scott Pearlman, and she thanked Pearlman for whipping her into shape for the movie.  , 
    Young Spencer (Alex Wolff) has a number of video game posters hanging in his room and behind his door, primarily from two popular Sony titles: Uncharted 4: A Thief's End (2016) and Hitokui no ôwashi toriko (2016).  , 
    This was Jack Black's third adventure film set in a jungle setting. Black had starred in King Kong (2005) as the filmmaker Carl Denham, Tropic Thunder (2008), playing an actor, Jeff Portnoy, and in this film, he plays a virtual character.  , 
    During the scene in the bazaar, when the group stops to eat, the vendor behind them is William Tokarsky. He is most famous for the viral short from Adult Swim Too Many Cooks.  , 
    Towards the beginning of the movie, Spencer is seen wearing a yellow raincoat and standing in front of a rundown dilapidated house, eerily reminiscent of the movie It (2017).  , 
    Despite one of Smolder Bravestone's official in-game strengths being "Fearlessness," Spencer is frequently scared by various things (such as a squirrel or "Mouse"/Fridge acting like he is going to hit him) throughout his time in Jumanji, just like he is back in the real world.  , 
    During the Staring Contest around the basket, Dr. Bravestone exclaims: "Never Blink"! In Doctor Who (2005), there is the episode "Doctor Who: Blink (2007) starting the arch story of the Weeping Angels, where the Doctor (David Tennant constantly advises "Do Not Blink"! Later in the series, the Doctor's companion, Amy Pond, is played by Karen Gillan, here playing Martha/Ruby.  , 
    A rare ex-Military Land Rover 101GS can be spotted in one scene. The other Land Rover is a also milspec Defender 110s.  , 
    In the video game Brütal Legend (2009) there is a jungle area where the player traps beasts by encircling them with flames, using a flamethrower while riding a motorcycle. In this film, the exact same thing occurs. Jack Black stars in both.  , 
    The gloves worn by Ruby Roundhouse are Bontrager bike gloves.  , 
    Frequently throughout the movie, the first few notes of "Somewhere Over The Rainbow" can be heard mixed into the musical cues.   , 
    The movie's code name was called Jaguar, and signs were present for the movie at Kualoa Ranch in Hawaii.  , 
    The costume team came up with their own video game lexicon that touched upon every type of hero, from the classic adventurer with an enviable video game arsenal of powers and weapons to the archetypal warrior princess.  , 
    Madison Iseman grew up as a huge fan of the original Jumanji and feels honored to continue the legacy.  , 
    Professor Oberon's bow tie in the film was made by Lisa Eaton (of bowtie.com), a woman in Kennebunk, Maine, where part of the original film was shot.  , 
    Thirty-five years before this film's release, Colin Hanks' father, Tom Hanks, starred in the TV movie Mazes and Monsters (1982), where Hanks played a young man with a group of friends who play a board game which dangerously draws them towards the line between fantasy and reality.  , 
