Extensive reshoots in London and Los Angeles in mid-2017 added a cost of approximately $25 million to the film's budget. Henry Cavill worked on the reshoots and Mission: Impossible - Fallout (2018) at the same time. He had to sport a mustache for his role in the latter project, however Paramount refused to let the actor shave it off for the time he played Superman again. This meant that Cavill's facial hair had to be digitally removed in post-production.  , 
    Director Zack Snyder and his wife producer Deborah Snyder stepped down from finishing the film, after the suicide of Zack Snyder's daughter in March 2017. They tried to remain on the film as a way to work through the difficulty, but decided after two months to step away from the project to spend time with their family. Joss Whedon, who had signed on for Batgirl, took over as director, managing additional scenes that need to be included in the final cut. Warner Brothers have stated that Joss would direct and write in the same style as Zack so there won't be any tonal shifts or obvious changes in style. However, Joss Whedon controversially fired Zack Snyder's composer Junkie XL, and replaced him with Danny Elfman.  , 
    When the film got shown in Iceland (which uses subtitles rather than dub for films with non-Icelandic languages), Jason Momoa's pronunciation of his single line of Icelandic was deemed so unintelligible that it had to be subtitled into Icelandic (often resulting in a big laugh by the audience).  , 
Holt McCallany, who plays the burglar in the first scene with Batman, said the scene was written and shot by Joss Whedon as comedic, but Warner Bros. preferred to open the film with a more serious tone, and the scene was re-edited. When McCallany returned home to New York, he found a bottle of his favorite champagne at his door and a note from Whedon that said, 'To battles lost. Gratefully, Joss.' McCallany appreciated Whedon's gesture and had the letter framed.  , 
    One of the Gotham scenes during the prologue has a building with "Janus" written on it. This refers to Janus Cosmetics, run by Batman's enemy the crime boss Black Mask. Black Mask is set to appear in Gotham City Sirens.  , 
    In earlier drafts of the script, Victor Stone was supposed to have suffered his severe injuries as a result of Doomsday's rampage through Metropolis in Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016).  , 
    Due to the running time backlash of past DC movies, Warner Bros demanded a film under 2 hours without credits. The final running time for Justice League is 119 minutes.  , 
    Barry Allen says he knows sign language, specifically gorilla sign language. One of the Flash's most famous enemies is Grodd, an intelligent telepathic gorilla.  , 
    Wonder Woman first appears in the film standing atop a statue of a goddess. This is the Greek goddess Themis, or Justitia to the Romans, better known in modern society as Lady Justice.  , 
    In October 2007, George Miller had cast the Justice League completely, with D.J. Cotrona as Superman, Armie Hammer as Batman, model Megan Gale as Wonder Woman, rapper Common as Green Lantern/John Stewart, Adam Brody as the Flash/Barry Allen, Santiago Cabrera as Aquaman/Arthur Curry, Hugh Keays-Byrne as the Martian Manhunter (J'onn J'onzz), Tereasa Palmer as Talia al Ghul, and Jay Baruchel as Maxwell Lord. However, the film was shelved during production.  , 
Billy Crudup plays Barry Allen's (The Flash) father Henry in this film. However, before appearing in the DC Universe, Crudup initially auditioned for and was a top contender for the role of Bruce Wayne/Batman in Batman Begins (2005) before Christian Bale was cast. Crudup also portrayed a DC Comics superhero (Dr. Manhattan) in the film "Watchmen."  , 
Ciarán Hinds portrays Steppenwolf in performance-capture. Hinds was unfamiliar with using the technology and got advice from his friend Liam Neeson, who had earlier done performance-capture acting in A Monster Calls (2016).  , 
    Zack Snyder and Ray Fisher both stated that Cyborg was going to be the heart of this film. However, when Joss Whedon was hired for reshoots, most of Cyborg's scenes were cut.  , 
Laurence Fishburne was asked to reprise his role as Perry White for a cameo, but scheduling conflicts with other projects made him unavailable on the day filming was supposed to take place.  , 
    The superheroes are never actually referred to as "The Justice League" in the movie.  , 
    This movie was initially going to be split into two parts: Justice League Part One and Justice League Part Two, with an alleged singular continuing story line. But by the time filming was under way, the idea of the film being in two parts seemed to have quietly gone away. It is now rumored to be two self-contained movies with two related but separate plots.  , 
    In one scene, Alfred (Jeremy Irons) says to Bruce Wayne (Ben Affleck), "One misses the days when one's biggest concerns were exploding wind-up penguins." This is a reference to Batman Returns (1992), where Batman (Michael Keaton) goes up against Catwoman (Michelle Pfeiffer) and the Penguin (Danny DeVito) who had an army of penguins wearing exploding rockets with a plot to destroy Gotham City. The composer of Justice League, Danny Elfman, also composed the original Batman (1989) &amp; Batman Returns (1992) musical scores and he utilizes parts of them in this film.  , 
    Zack Snyder stated that Justice League was always going to be totally different than Batman v Superman. During the time Warner Bros. invited journalists and bloggers to visit the set, Zack Snyder also stated it was going to have a shorter runtime too.  , 
Danny Elfman took over from Junkie XL, who originally replaced Hans Zimmer. Zimmer had announced his retirement from the "superhero business" and left to work on Tomb Raider (2018).  , 
    The line-up in this film is based on the founding members from the New 52 origin story (with the exception of Green Lantern). During the Silver Age origin story, Martian Manhunter was one of the founding members. He was replaced with Cyborg (who was previously known as a founding member of the New Teen Titans) in the New 52 version.  , 
    Some of the gods seen defending Earth from invasion are Zeus, Ares and Artemis.  , 
Ben Affleck was considered to direct this film.  , 
    When the three DC main heroes (Wonder Woman, Batman, Superman) make their first public appearance in the film, a part of their theme music from their respective films (Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016), Batman (1989), and Superman (1978)) plays.  , 
    This film is being released on the same day the animated series Justice League (2001) first aired sixteen years earlier.  , 
    Diana is working on a statue of the Greek god Artemis. The Roman name for Artemis is Diana.  , 
    This film took one decade to come to fruition. A Justice League film entitled "Mortal" was scheduled to be released in 2007, but it got shelved.  , 
    Bruce Wayne is said to have been operating as Batman for twenty years when the movie takes place. It matches with the 20th anniversary of Batman &amp; Robin (1997).  , 
    This film was released on the 25th anniversary of The Death of Superman comic, which was released November 17, 1992; and the 16th anniversary of Justice League (2001) which premiered its first episode November 17, 2001.  , 
    As an April Fool's Day joke, production said Zack Snyder had left the project and that George Miller would be taken up the directing duties. The feedback was quite positive. However, when Joss Whedon replaced Snyder due to the death of Snyder's daughter, feedback was sincerely sympathetic.  , 
    This was Zack Snyder's first film shot in the 1.85:1 aspect ratio. This was chosen because Snyder had a great experience with filming the IMAX sections of Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice (2016) and he "sort of fell in love with [the] giant, less rectangular aspect ratio" of 1.85:1 as opposed to the 2.39:1 aspect ratio used in his previous films.  , 
    This is the third live-action appearance of the Justice League after the failed TV pilot Justice League of America (1997) and Smallville (2001).  , 
Danny Elfman confirmed that he would be using the Batman theme music from Batman (1989) in the film, and would also use briefly John Williams' Superman theme during "a dark, twisted moment" in the film. Gary Clark Jr. and The White Stripes have also been featured in the Justice League album.  , 
Billy Crudup also starred in Watchmen (2009), based on the DC Comics graphic novel of the same name. Crudup portrays Dr. Manhattan, the most powerful being in existence. Watchmen was also directed by Zack Snyder and while the story took place in a parallel universe to the main DC universe, it appears the current DC comic book Rebirth line of comics combined the Watchmen universe with the current DC main universe.  , 
    The scene in which Barry Allen/The Flash is grumbling that Bruce Wayne/Batman is sitting in his second favorite chair is an inside joke about "Sheldon's Spot" from The Big Bang Theory (2007). Sheldon is a big fan of The Flash and Cisco Ramon, ally and friend of The Flash also wears t-shirts with Sheldon's quotes in TV series The Flash (2014).  , 
    At one point a newspaper cover story announces that certain beings have returned to their alien worlds. Two of them are David Bowie and Prince, both of whom died and who were considered eccentric icons of world culture.  , 
    The weapon that Aquaman acquires is not actually a trident (meaning "3-toothed") as it may be commonly called. A true trident has only 3 points, as opposed to the 5-pointed "pitchfork" (as Batman jokingly calls it) seen in the film. In interviews, Jason Momoa calls it a "quindent" ("5-toothed"). It is also not meant to be the actual trident carried by the character in the various comic series, however it does have magical properties of its own (penetrative power, the ability to hold back advancing water, etc). A future story line may entail Aquaman acquiring the actual trident which had belonged to the sea god Poseidon and which gives the carrier the title of Protector of the Seas.  , 
    At one point, Warner Bros. considered making this film in performance-capture animation.  , 
Chris Terrio finished writing the screenplay as of July 2015.  , 
    This movie brings together Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman, Aquaman, the Flash, and Cyborg. Mera shows up in the film, but is not on the team.  , 
    Gal Gadot's work on "Justice League" began the day after she wrapped production on "Wonder Woman."  , 
Joe Morton who plays Silas Stone in this film and the father/ creator of Cyborg, also starred in Terminator 2 (1991). In both movies he uses futuristic technology that in turn lead to the creation of cyborgs with metal parts and red eyes: the Terminators themselves in Judgement Day, and Cyborg his son in Justice League.  , 
    In January 2008, Warner Bros. announced the film was on indefinite hold, allowing options to lapse for the cast. The studio felt the script needed perfecting, which was impossible because of the 2007-2008 Writers Guild of America strike.  , 
    In September 2007, George Miller had signed on to direct, but by 2010, he finally left the project.  , 
    The Icelandic village was actually filmed on location in Djúpavík, Iceland.  , 
    Aquaman is the son of Atlanna, an Atlantean princess, and Tom Curry, a lighthouse keeper who raised him in Amnesty Bay, after his mother returned to her undersea kingdom.  , 
Danny Elfman used a little of his own Batman (1989) score with some key Batman scenes.  , 
    At the end of the film, Barry gets a job "in a crime lab". In the comics, he was working as a police scientist for the Central City Police Department Scientific Detection Bureau, where he gets involved in the accident that gives him superpowers.  , 
    Was sent to theaters under the name Harwood.  , 
    This is Danny Elfman's twelfth time scoring a superhero film, after working on Tim Burton's Batman films, Barry Sonnenfeld's "Men in Black" films, Sam Raimi's Spider-Man films, Hulk (2003), Wanted (2008), Hellboy II: The Golden Army (2008) and Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015).  , 
    This is the shortest DCEU film to date.  , 
    Pre-production of this film started in January 2016.  , 
    The lasso is also called the Lasso of Hestia.  , 
Danny Elfman also composed the theme tune for The Flash (1990).  , 
    In an interview, Jason Momoa stated that his intention was to make Aquaman a badass. When the team is discussing how to revive Superman, Aquaman is standing behind a work table. When no one is looking, he steals a screwdriver.  , 
Marit Allen was originally hired as costume designer, but she died in November 2007.  , 
    Zack Snyder cites Seven Samurai (1954) as an influence on the film.  , 
    Back in 2007, Jason Reitman was the original choice to direct the film, but he turned it down, as he considered himself an independent filmmaker and preferred to stay out of big budget superhero films.  , 
    Each Mother Box was specifically designed to reflect the visual style of the individual race.  , 
    Areopagus is a hill located outside of Athens. It is the home of Wonder Woman's enemy - and half-brother - the war god Ares.  , 
    The first official footage for this film was shown at San Diego Comic Con on July 23, 2016.  , 
    South Korean singing group Black Pink's music video "As If It's Your Last" can be seen playing in the background behind Bruce Wayne in Barry Allen's place in the USA &amp; South Korean releases of the film.  , 
    After saving a family, Flash waves goodbye and says "Dostoevsky!" Fyodor Dostoevsky was a Russian novelist, famous for novels including Crime and Punishment. The Flash most likely meant to say "do svidaniya," which means goodbye or farewell.  , 
    Actor Jason Momoa says Clint Eastwood's "The Outlaw Josey Wales" inspired his rebellious Aquaman.  , 
   