[
    Some of Red Mist/The Motherfucker's nastier moments from the comic including murdering children and rape were omitted from the film. Christopher Mintz-Plasse 's reaction to this was literally "Oh thank God".   
    The lines "Try to have fun otherwise what's the point?" and "Yeah there's a dog on your balls" were both improvised by Jim Carrey.   
Evan Peters was unable to reprise his role as Todd Haynes because of scheduling conflicts with American Horror Story (2011). Similarly Lyndsy Fonseca was only available for a brief cameo as Katie Deauxma due to scheduling conflicts with Nikita (2010).   
Jim Carrey bought his own props to look like the comic book version of Colonel Stars and Stripes.   
    Colonel Stars and Stripes is a combination of two characters from the comics: Colonel Stars and Lieutenant Stripes (they're brothers).   
    Mark Millar was actually delighted by Jim Carrey's disapproval of the film's violence. In his own words Millar described it as "like saying 'this porno has too much nudity.'"   
    The posters seen in Dave's room "American Jesus" and "Superior" are two graphic novels written by "Kick-Ass" author Mark Millar.   
    According to Chloë Grace Moretz a sequel to Kick-Ass 2 would be unlikely because it was one of the most pirated movies of the year leading to a disappointing box-office. However Matthew Vaughn director of the first movie has indicated that he still has plans for a Hit-Girl prequel and a third Kick-Ass movie.   
    In the comic for the first Kick-Ass Dave states that he likes the television series Scrubs (2001). In this film Dr. Gravity is played by Donald Faison who also plays Turk in Scrubs.   
Lindy Booth (Night-Bitch) previously worked with director Jeff Wadlow on his first film Cry Wolf (2005).   
    The Motherfucker's lair was actually a warehouse at Pinewood studios. Following completion of filming it was demolished in order to build a new soundstage.   
    In one scene where Dave and Mindy are talking Dave is wearing a shirt that says "I Hate Reboots". That same year Chloë Grace Moretz starred in a remake of Carrie (1976).   
    Two characters from Kick Ass (2010) were carried on to Kick Ass 2 (2013) but were cast as different actors. Todd originally played by Evan Peters is now played by Augustus Prew. Marcus originally played by Omari Hardwick is now played by Morris Chestnut.   
    In the movie the character Insect Man says he became a super hero because he was teased and bullied in school because he is gay. He says that today he is very proud of who he is which is why he does not wear a mask or make any attempt to conceal his identity. In the comic the character is dramatically different. At a meeting of the members of Justice Forever Insect Man claims to be a police officer who is tired of playing by the rules and wants to brutalize criminals which is why he chose to become a super hero. Also he does wear a mask and makes an effort to conceal his identity.   
    The statue of a child wearing an Army helmet and holding a grenade in the villain's lair is titled "Boy Soldier" by British artist Schoony.   
    This is Jeff Wadlow's first R-rated film.   
    In the comic it is implied that the character of Colonel Stars (Colonel Stars and Stripes in the movie.) had terminal cancer and may not have had long to live which explained why he renounced his former life as a mob enforcer became a Born Again Christian and became a Superhero. However this is never confirmed. The movie omits this point.   
    Many of the characters talk about Batman. Jim Carrey starred in Batman Forever (1995).   
    Aaron Taylor-Johnson and Daniel Kaluuya previously appeared in Chatroom (2010).   
    The Region 1 DVD and Region A Blu-ray from Universal Pictures include an Audio Descriptive Track.   
    Creators Mark Millar and John Romita Jr. have cameos as superheroes in the climactic battle between the superheroes and the supervillains.   
Jim Carrey only has 7 minutes and 45 seconds of screentime.   
    In the wake of the Newtown Elementary School shooting in 2012 Jim Carrey refused to take part in any promotion campaigns for this film because he felt he could no longer support its violent content. Carrey is known for his personal distaste for guns and gun violence not unlike his character in the movie (the only gun the Colonel handles in the film is unloaded).   
    When Mother Russia is destroying the police cars Korobeiniki a traditional Russian song which is widely known for appearing as a theme music to "Tetris" is playing.   
    In a deleted scene of the film just before the climactic fight starts Eisenhower runs in and bites the Mother F***er's crotch.   
    When Mindy is going out on her date she tells Marcus not to worry because she can "kill a man with his own finger". Later in the final battle scene Hit-Girl kills Black Death with his own finger.   
    Mother Russia has a tattoo on her left arm which you can see right after the scene when Motherfucker tried to rape Night Bitch. Translating from Russian it says 'Don't fear don't beg don't believe'.   
    During the Flashback during the funeral you can see the name Mark Millar on top of the poster. Mark Millar is the author of the Kick-Ass comics.   
    When The Motherfucker is destroying Colonel Stars and Stripes' lair a rarely used 49 star flag can be seen. After he says "Let's trash this place" you get a clear shot of it. The flag was used for less than a year after Alaska joined the Union in 1959.  ]
