[
    Archie is retired from the U.S. Air Force the same branch of service of which Morgan Freeman is a veteran. The two pictures seen at the beginning of the film of Archie in uniform were actually of Morgan during his time in the service.   
Michael Douglas and Mary Steenburgen were on the Stratosphere ride and had to do it over and over in order to get the shot.   
    All four leading actors have won at least one Academy Award for acting. Michael Douglas for Wall Street (1987) Morgan Freeman for Million Dollar Baby (2004) Kevin Kline for A Fish Called Wanda (1988) and Robert De Niro for Raging Bull (1980) and The Godfather: Part II (1974). Mary Steenburgen has also won for Melvin and Howard (1980). In addition Douglas has another Oscar for producing One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) which won the Best Picture Academy Award.   
    Was originally rated-R by the MPAA for "brief sexual content" but was later overturned to PG-13 for "sexual content and language". According to Director Jon Turteltaub the initial R-rating was due to one use of the word "blowjob". During the discussions with the MPAA he had to explain to them why a use of this word is appropriate for a PG-13 rated movie.   
    Was originally set to star Jack Nicholson who starred in One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (1975) which was produced by Michael Douglas.   
    Although the film has been described as a group of seventy-something men Kevin Kline and Michael Douglas were only in their sixties when film was released.   
    Though the four male leads had crossed paths before at various times in their careers this marks the first ever joint venture for all four men.   
    In the scene where they first go to the pool a dark haired red bikini clad girl slowly emerges from the pool. This is a nod to Kevin Kline' s wife Phoebe Cates infamous red bikini scene in Fast Times at Ridgemont High (1982).   
    Three of the four male leads have played the President of the United States. Morgan Freeman in Deep Impact (1998). Kevin Kline in Dave (1993) and Wild Wild West (1999) and Michael Douglas in The American President (1995).   
    At the American movie release on November 1 2013 the four leads were aged sixty-six (Kevin Kline) sixty-nine (Michael Douglas) seventy (Robert De Niro) and seventy-six (Morgan Freeman) making them a total of 281.75-years-old or an average of 70.44.   
    All four main actors have starred as a love interest of Diane Keaton in a movie: Robert De Niro in The Big Wedding (2013) Morgan Freeman in 5 Flights Up (2014) Michael Douglas in And So It Goes (2014) and Kevin Kline in Darling Companion (2012).   
Jack Nicholson was considered for the role of Billy in early development.   
    Shipped to theaters under the code name "Fellas".   
Christopher Walken and Dustin Hoffman were considered for the role of Sam.   
Michael Ealy Romany Malco and Jerry Ferrara appeared in Think Like a Man (2012) and Think Like a Man Too (2014).   
    Mary Steenburgen co-wrote the song she is singing in her first appearance.   
Morgan Freeman's character upon arrival in Las Vegas admonishes Robert De Niro and Michael Douglas with "Now either you men are to be civil to each other or so help me I'm going to rain Holy hell down on the both of ya. You understand?" Freeman had played the role of God in Bruce Almighty (2003) and Evan Almighty (2007).   
    Diana Boyle is also the real name of one of the Madisons.   
    Morgan Freeman watches "Housewives" on television but the specific edition isn't mentioned.   
Kevin Kline and Mary Steenburgen appeared in Dean (2016).  ]
