[
    This is the first time Mel Gibson has ever played the main antagonist.   
    This is the first film of Charlie Sheen's career in which he is credited under his birth name Carlos Estevez. He is humorously given an "introducing" credit.   
Robert Rodriguez's eleventh collaboration with Danny Trejo.   
    DIRECTOR_TRADEMARK(Robert Rodriguez): [gun]: The penis-shaped gun used by Desdemona is virtually the same as the one used by Tom Savini in From Dusk Till Dawn (1996) and Antonio Banderas in Desperado (1995).   
    The film was shot in 29 days.   
    During the fight between Machete (Danny Trejo) and Voz (Mel Gibson) the "William Wallace" sword from Braveheart (1995) can be seen behind Gibson.   
    DIRECTOR_TRADEMARK(Robert Rodriguez): [Chingon]: The word "Chingon" across the back window of the armored Chevy El Camino they drive under the border is not only vulgar Mexican slang for something or someone very tough and cool but it's the name of Rodriguez's rock band. Music from Chingon has appeared in many of Rodriguez's films including both Machetes.   
    In the chopper when Machete is being transported along with Cereza Zaror's ringtone on his cellphone is the opening notes and chords to Cancion Del Mariachi a song from Desperado (1995) also a Robert Rodriguez film.   
    Fourth collaboration between Robert Rodriguez Alexa PenaVega Danny Trejo and Antonio Banderas. First non-Spy Kids (2001) collaboration between them.   
Michelle Williams was offered the role of Miss San Antonio but declined. The role went to Amber Heard.   
Mel Gibson completed his role in one week.   
    The film pokes fun at the Star Wars film franchise. Voz is a fan of Star Wars and drives a landspeeder (with wheels) then dons a mask when his face is burned by Machete's flamethrower and Machete and Voz are seen engaged in a lightsaber duel in the fake trailer "Machete Kills Again... In Space". Luz is at one point frozen in "carbonite".   
Alexa PenaVega only has one line throughout the film.   
    In Sheriff Doakes' office a campaign poster for Senator John McLaughlin from the first Machete (2010) is visible.   
    At the end of the armored car chase scene when Desdemona and her crew turn around and leave a few notes from the "Spy Kids" theme music can be heard when Alexa PenaVega turns around and reveals her exposed back side.   
    Second movie for Lady Gaga. Her first movie was Men in Black 3 (2012) playing an alien in an uncredited cameo.   
Charlie Sheen plays the President. His father Martin has played several U.S. Presidents.   
    Wilhelm Scream: During the opening credits sequence.   
    The weapon that Voz is holding when he is scorched by the flame thrower is a Klingon bat'leth from the Star Trek Universe. William Sadler who plays the Sheriff played a secret agent in a few episodes of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine (1993) one of the series which prominently featured bat'leths.   
    For a brief moment after Voz gets in the "Chingon" armored car the camera focused on Mel Gibson's face similar to the "Mad Max" films in which he started.   
Robert Rodriguez and Marcel Rodriguez wrote a forty page treatment with dialogue in it. Robert calls it a "scriptment". Screenwriter Kyle Ward was hired to turn it into a ninety page screenplay. Robert Rodriguez couldn't write the screenplay because he was busy working on Sin City: A Dame to Kill For (2014).   
Robert Rodriguez wrote the part of Voz with Mel Gibson in mind.   
    The space ship in which Voz plans to escape Earth resembles "Gunstar One" from The Last Starfighter (1984).   
    The character of El Cameleón was created by Screenwriter Kyle Ward.   
    Features both Mel Gibson and Charlie Sheen in its cast. In the movie Scary Movie 3 Sheen appears in an extended sequence which spoofs the car crash scene from Signs with Sheen "playing" the Gibson character.   
Jesse James: The builder of the armored El Camino is seen as a Secret Service Agent.   
    Body Count: one hundred one.   
    The quadratic panel full of illuminated buttons that Voz uses to launch his space shuttle near the end of the movie is actually a "Novation Launchpad" MIDI controller.  ]
