[
Isabelle Nélisse can't speak English which is why she's not given much dialogue and speaks more with body language.   
    Mama is played by a man Javier Botet with a genetic disorder called Marfan syndrome. The symptoms of the disease is what gives him his slender body and long fingers.   
    Mama's movement is not entirely CGI. Javier Botet has well-above-average range of motion in his joints. The only CGI on Mama is her hair.   
    Mama's appearance was inspired by a painting by Amedeo Modigliani owned by Andy Muschietti.   
    This is not the first time Javier Botet has played a ghoulish woman as he previously appeared as the possessed patient zero in [Rec] (2007).   
    This film was not the only time Javier Botet played a demon in one of Andy Muschietti's films. He also played the Leper a form of the titular demon in the film It (2017).   
Jessica Chastain was the first and only choice for the part of Annabel.   
    According to Jessica Chastain Annabel's octopus tattoo describes her character. When Annabel found herself caught in a situation she did not like such as the octopus she would take off her tentacles and grow new tentacles to escape.   
    The screenplay is written by siblings Andy Muschietti and Barbara Muschietti expanded from their previous short film of the same name.   
    Originally set for October 2012 the film's release was postponed until January 2013 in order not to compete with Paranormal Activity 4 (2012).   
    It would take four hours every day to get Javier Botet into his Mama make-up and another two hours to remove it.   
    Although the entire film story and all was the creation of Andy Muschietti he did not return to direct the sequel due to his commitments as director of the film It (2017).   
    Since the character she plays is a bassist Jessica Chastain took guitar lessons.   
    British writer Neil Cross the creator of Luther contributed to the screenplay.   
    Annabel's comment of 'sector plural z alpha' is a reference to Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy.   
    This movie gave Jessica Chastain a one-two punch at the US box office charts when it opened at number one with Zero Dark Thirty (2012) opening at number two.   
    Clifton Forge Virginia is a real place as is Douthat State Park where the lake/cabins mentioned in the movie are located which is about 10 miles away in Bath County Virginia. The stand-in main street is even very similar. The actual town however is not nine miles down a dirt/gravel road. In reality it has direct access to Interstate 64 the same Interstate that passes through Richmond. It is also the only town in the world with that unique name.   
    When Annabel is watching TV (about 41 minutes into the movie) she looks at the screen and says "Nice butt Bruce". She is referring to actor Bruce Dern and the movie she is watching is called Silent Running (1972).   
    The curator of the archives describes a ghost as "an emotion bent out of shape barely human condemned to repeat itself". This is almost word for word how the main characters define ghosts in 'The Devil's Backbone' (2001) and 'Crimson Peak' (2015). Both movies were directed by Guillermo del Toro the later also starring Jessica Chastain. Del Toro provided much of the financing of this film having read the story by director Andy Muschietti and quite keen on supporting upcoming talents.   
    In the opening scenes where the father is driving on the cliff with the kids the license plate of their car spells "no 1 dad" a joke by the directors considering he is in the midst of murdering his family and on his way to kill the children and himself.   
    The moths which Lilly eats were made of chocolate. Unbeknownst to the crew Isabelle Nélisse doesn't even like chocolate.  ]
