[
    Throughout the film Julia Roberts wears enormous ball gowns. On the set her children hid underneath her skirt without anyone knowing. In between takes Roberts had her children removed from the set because she was concerned about them hearing her "vile" dialogue as the Evil Queen.   
    While filming a fight scene between the Evil Queen and Snow White Julia Roberts accidentally ripped out some hair from Lily Collins.   
Lily Collins admitted in an interview that she originally auditioned for the role of Snow White in Snow White and the Huntsman (2012) (based on the same Brothers Grimm story) losing to Kristen Stewart.   
    Almost all of the unlikely seeming beauty treatments the Queen undergoes are actually real treatments you can get at spas all over the world. Among the real ones are: the bird poop paste the chocolate (or clay it's not clear which it is since it's brown) mask the snake massage the snail slime the maggots and the tiny fishes that eat away dead skin cells. One of the few (if not the only) fake treatments shown is the bee sting to the lips to plump them up although lip plumpers really do contain (usually botanical or chemical not insectoid) irritants.   
    Last film of costume designer Eiko Ishioka before her death.   
    The original script included a scene between a shirtless Prince (Armie Hammer) and the Queen (Julia Roberts) in which the Queen remarks how smooth his chest is. This line had to be altered when Hammer refused to shave the hair off his chest for the scene.   
    Until the filming was complete Mirror Mirror was known as The Untitled Snow White Project. Though director Tarsem Singh's intention was to make a family-friendly action comedy he admitted to the press that he was disappointed with the title Mirror Mirror. He said in an interview that we would have preferred the simple title of "Snow."   
Sam Claflin auditioned for the role of The Prince but lost to Armie Hammer. Coincidentally he was later cast in the rival Snow White project Snow White and the Huntsman (2012)   
    According to Julia Roberts Mirror Mirror is the first film that made her young children aware that their mother was a famous film actress. Even though her children showed a large amount of enthusiasm about the Evil Queen Roberts did not let them see the film for they were "too young." In fact Roberts kept her work a secret from her children while Mirror Mirror was filming. "They're too young for it (the movie) and I think they would find it (me) disturbing" she said.   
    The sign outside the dwarves' house reads "no entry over 4 feet". At least 4 of the dwarves are over 4 feet including Butcher who has the line "I say never trust anyone over 4 feet". He's 4'1.   
    This is the second time Martin Klebba has portrayed one of the seven dwarfs in a Snow White film the first being Snow White: The Fairest of Them All (2001).   
    This is Julia Roberts' second film playing an iconic fairy tale role; two decades earlier she played Tinkerbell in Hook (1991).   
    According to Julia Roberts her costumes in the film were both heavy and almost impossible to move in. At one point while shooting Roberts turned rather quickly to her co-star Nathan Lane during a take and pulled a muscle. Needless to say they had to stop shooting. Lane asked if Roberts was all right and she responded with "I think I just ripped something."   
Julia Roberts said in an interview "I was like 'this is a terrible idea.' I was against it (the movie) a thousand percent." However when Roberts had a meeting with director Tarsem Singh her opinions changed completely. "I am such a fan of Tarsem and fell under his spell."   
    The peacocks painted on the wall in the Queen's room are direct copies of the ones painted by James Abbott McNeill Whistler in his famous peacock room (1876-77). The glass tables were designed by famous art nouveau jeweler and artist Rene Lalique.   
    All of the trees in the forest are birch.   
Saoirse Ronan was considered for the role of Snow White but the age difference between her and Armie Hammer was too big.   
    One of the first lines from the Prince "The trees are just wood" is a reference to the Broadway musical "Into the Woods".   
    Lily Collins auditioned for Snow White in Snow White and The Huntsman (2012) but lost to Kristen Stewart. Sam Claflin auditioned for the Prince but lost the role and later went on to be cast as the prince in Snow White and The Huntsman. Coincidentally Collins and Claflin later starred together in Love Rosie (2014).   
    At one point during the chess game at the beginning of the film the Queen says "loose lips sink ships" to Brighton. When the aid asks which ship is to be sunk the Queen says that is just an expression. Actually the phrase was coined in Britain during World War II regarding the secrecy of route of Atlantic convoys. Since Germany had spies everywhere an indiscretion could quite literally sink a ship.   
Alex Pettyfer James Holzier and James McAvoy were all considered for the part of Prince Andrew Alcott.   
    Julia Roberts turned down the role of Leigh Ann Tuohy in Lily Collins' film debut The Blind Side. They would later work together on this film.   
    Movie is based on Snow White   
    In many traditions of Snow White the actress playing the Evil Queen also plays the Witch/Crone role with the poisoned apple. Producers kept videos and photographs of Julia Roberts's "hag" transformation under wraps before the film was released to both surprise and lure audiences. However director Tarsem Singh revealed in an interview "Julia does become a hag in the end it's pretty gross."   
    This is the first adaptation of The Brothers Grimm: Snow White where both the characters - Snow White (Lily Collins) and the Evil Queen (Julia Roberts) - have a romantic relationship with the Prince (Armie Hammer).   
    The title of the movie is derived from the iconic line from the original animated movie "Snow White and the Seven Dwarves" scene where the evil witch approaches the magic mirror and says "Mirror Mirror on the wall who's the fairest of them all?". This line actually never occurred in the original movie. The witch actually says "Magic mirror on the wall who's the fairest of them all?". It is odd the title of this movie comes from a line that never really existed.  ]
