[
    The dance scene on the beach was saved for the very end of filming so that the two young leads would be comfortable around each other and was done on a closed set (just the two leads co-Writer and Director Wes Anderson and the cameraman).   
    In the film Laura Bishop shouts at various family members through a bullhorn. The idea came from co-Writer Roman Coppola's childhood as his mother Eleanor Coppola used a bullhorn in a similar fashion.   
    After filming was completed Kara Hayward got to keep the kitten owned in the film by her character Suzy and Jared Gilman got to keep the backpack used by his character Sam.   
    During filming Bill Murray taught Jared Gilman how to tie a necktie for the first time.   
    During filming co-Writer and Director Wes Anderson rented an old mansion in Newport Rhode Island for him Editor Andrew Weisblum and Director of Photography Robert D. Yeoman in which they had a room set up for editing the film. It had been arranged for the cast to stay in a nearby hotel called "The Vanderbilt Grace" but eventually some of the cast members also decided to stay at the mansion including Edward Norton and Jason Schwartzman. Murray later joked that the theory was to have everyone close by so that they could all work "ungodly art-movie hours".   
    This is the first Wes Anderson film without any involvement from Owen Wilson.   
    According to Wes Anderson Suzy's discovery of the "Coping with a Troubled Child" pamphlet was based on a similar experience from his own childhood: "It wasn't anything terrible. It's just something that at the time when I found it I was like 'What is this?' I immediately knew who that troubled child was even though hypothetically it could have been someone else."   
    When Suzy is reading "Disappearance of the Sixth Grade" at the Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet campground and continues onto "Part Two" after Sam says to read on it is just about the exact midway point of the film: the spoken words occur at 46:59 with 46:56 left in the movie. This moment also marks the transition of the film's plot of course so Suzy's "reading" also informs the audience of the shift in the movie's tone and direction.   
    According to Jared Gilman the scene that required the most takes was the one where he held up the beetle earrings to Suzy. Each time he did it either the earrings weren't entirely in the frame or he wasn't holding them correctly.   
    When the movie first shows the scene of Scout Master Ward (Edward Norton) recording his log on his tape recorder there is a framed picture of Commander Pierce (Harvey Keitel) next to his recorder. At the end of the movie the picture is replaced with Becky (Marianna Bassham) the switchboard operator.   
    Commenting on the film's connection to the first time he fell in love Wes Anderson has said "Well what I wanted to do was re-create the feeling of that memory. The movie is kind of like a fantasy that I think I would have had at that age. When you're eleven or twelve years old you can get so swept up in a book that you start to believe that the fantasy is reality. I think when you have a giant crush when you're in fifth grade it becomes your whole world. It's like being underwater everything is different."   
    The film opened in only four theaters two in New York City and two in Los Angeles but earned 167250 dollars per screen the all-time record for highest per-theater box-office average of a non-animated film.   
Kara Hayward applied her own make-up.   
    Before filming neither Kara Hayward nor Jared Gilman had ever seen a typewriter in person. Hayward later said "Fran (Frances McDormand) had a lot of fun with that. She couldn't believe it. She showed me that the keys are in the same place as now (on computers)."   
    When Sam is surrounded by the Scouts in Lightning Field he says "On this spot I will fight no more forever" which is from the Surrender Speech by Chief Joseph of the Nez Perce tribe. In 1877 Chief Joseph attempted to lead his people on an eleven hundred-mile journey to Canada to escape the U.S. Army. They made it within forty miles before they were surrounded and Chief Joseph made his speech.   
    The words "For Juman" appear in the corner at the very end of the movie. This refers to Wes Anderson's girlfriend Juman Malouf.   
    There are numerous references to corn. Added to the film being bathed in yellows and oranges remarks are made about maize Scout Master Ward is seen reading "Indian Corn Magazine" twice Sam constantly smokes from a corn cob pipe the three Bishop boys are eating only corn on the cob in one dinner scene the coffee pot in his Sam's foster parents kitchen has the famous Corning Corn Flower pattern on the exterior and the end of the film mentions the best corn crop the island has had in fifty years.   
    Made on a budget of six million dollars which is Wes Anderson's smallest budget since Bottle Rocket (1996) which was made on a budget of seven million dollars.   
Wes Anderson's sixth collaboration with Bill Murray.   
    Opening film at the 65th Cannes Film Festival in 2012.   
    While Suzy's books in the movie are fake "Noye's Fludde" is a real 1957 opera by Benjamin Britten. The text is based on an edition by Alfred W. Pollard of an early fifteenth century mystery play from the Chester Mystery Cycle. The opera is written to be performed by a cast primarily of amateurs and Britten requested it be performed in a church or a large hall but not in a theatre. Hence why it is being done by children in a church.   
Alan Rickman and Jeremy Irons were considered and offered the role of Social Services.   
    In the fine print of Sam's Khaki Scouts of North America register it says "The organization will be held harmless in the event of accident or injury."   
    Most of Wes Anderson's classmates who were Scouts were in Troop 55.   
    Though it was filmed in part on Prudence Island Rhode Island the map of the island of New Penzance is based on Fisher's Island New York.   
    The science fiction book that Suzy carries "The Girl From Jupiter" bears the name "Isaac Clarke" as the author. This name references Isaac Asimov and Arthur C. Clarke two of the best-known writers of science fiction novels.   
    The fish hook earrings Sam gives to Suzy are made of iridescent greenish-blue beetles called Fiery Searchers. They are common all over North America and are found in moist forest floor areas.   
    Some of the ranks shown on the patches of the Khaki Scouts include Scout Master (Randy Ward) Field Mate (Shakusky) Reptile Patrol (Roosevelt) Woodmaster (Skotak) Judo Expert (Redford) H2O Purifier (Deluca) Bear Spotter (Panagle) Flint Chipper (Panagle) and Petty Bugler (Lazy-Eye). Some have multiple ranks (in addition to Panagle Gadge also holds multiple ranks: Signal Scout Arrowhead and Knife Hunter) whereas some have only one (Cousin Ben is only a Legionnaire).   
    This is the first Wes Anderson film to be shot in the 1.85:1 ratio since Bottle Rocket (1996) and also the first to be shot on 16mm film.   
    It was originally explained that Sam's parents were hit by a drunk truck driver. This information did not end up in the final version of the movie.   
    The underlying tune of Alexandre Desplat's main theme for the movie "The Heroic Weather-Conditions of the Universe" strongly resembles that of "The Sound of Silence" referencing another film about an elopement The Graduate (1967) in which the Simon & Garfunkel song was heavily featured.   
    The flag of the United States that is shown several times in the movie is the Betsy Ross flag with thirteen stars in a circle instead of fifty stars.   
    Wes Anderson (along with Alejandro Innarittu) is a huge fan of and was heavily influenced by Melody (1971) starring Mark Lester and Jack Wild which was written by Alan Parker. Anderson has stated that this film is essentially his remake of Melody (1971).   
    Many of these scenes were shot at Yawgoog Scout Reservation in Rockville Rhode Island. Scenes include Fort Lebanon and the marriage and chase scenes. The one hundred-year-old camp hasn't appeared in any movie but this one.   
Bob Balaban also played a cartographer in Close Encounters of the Third Kind (1977).   
    The Bishop residence contains several paintings of various locations around the movie including the Bishop residence Camp Ivanhoe the New Penzance Post Office and Fort Lebanon as well as numerous paintings of ships. The paintings of the locations around the movie are later seen in the credits.   
    Commander Pierce is introduced during the last act but his character is shown and mentioned throughout the film. His picture is on stamps on the letters that Sam and Suzy send his picture is on Scout Master Ward's desk and his picture is also in an editorial of the magazine Scout Master Ward reads called "Indian Corn".   
    An abandoned Linens 'n Things retail store outside of Newport Rhode Island was used as a soundstage for the film.   
    All the Khaki Scouts have a pendant tied to their neckerchiefs at the base of their necks. Some of these include raccoon hair (Sam) a lobster figurine (Lazy-Eye) a miniature canoe (Gadge) an ax (Deluca) an ice cream bar on a Popsicle stick (Nickleby) and a campfire (Scout Master Ward).   
    The board game that Lionel Rudy and Murray play is Parcheesi (known in the UK as Ludo and also has other names throughout the world) a cross and circle board game that originated in India.   
    During the closing credits the voice of a young person introduces various instruments as they join in playing a song a reference to the records played in the Hayward home. This method of spoken introduction has also been used outside of education recordings such as in the obscure 1967 song "Intro and Outro" by The Bonzo Dog Doo-Dah Band where atypical and strange instruments are introduced as played by unusual and unlikely musicians (such as John Wayne and Adolf Hitler) and in Mike Oldfield's seminal 1973 work "Tubular Bells" where Part One is concluded by Vivian Stanshall as "Master of Ceremonies" crediting one by one the instruments used earlier in the piece. Also tubular bells are listed as part of the deconstruction of the Alexandre Desplat piece.   
    Film debuts of Jared Gilman and Kara Hayward.   
    At Camp Ivanhoe there is a sign visible that says "Fort Lebanon". Wes Anderson's girlfriend Juman Malouf is originally from Lebanon.   
    On the map of New Penzance a pair of islands right next to each other can be seen labelled as "Fidelity Island" and "Honesty Rock".   
    The article in the Indian Corn Magazine about Commander Pierce (Harvey Kietel) shown towards the beginning of the film has the quote "Are we men or are we mice?" next to his photo. This is a reference to Bad Lieutenant (1992) also starring Kietel in which he asked his sons similarly "What are you men or mice?"   
    A location on the map of New Penzance is labelled "Yeoman Lane" a reference to Cinematographer Robert D. Yeoman.   
    All the Khaki Scouts have their last names etched right below their rank on the left side of their chest. Cousin Ben's last name is never mentioned by anyone in the movie but the name "Mazursky" can be seen upon close inspection. This is possibly a reference to Paul Mazursky another director of whom Wes Anderson is a fan.   
    The brief shot of the inside of Scout Master Ward's "Indian Corn Magazine" reveals that the magazine is based in Clinton New Jersey 01012. However the ZIP code "01012" is the real-life ZIP code for Chesterfield Massachusetts a location mentioned in the movie as where Sam's foster family lives. Jared Gilman (Sam) is from New Jersey.   
    The film cast includes two Oscar winners: Frances McDormand Tilda Swinton; and five Oscar nominees: Bill Murray Bob Balaban Edward Norton Harvey Keitel and Lucas Hedges.   
    During one scene they listen to a recording of Camille Saint-Saëns' "Carnival of the Animals". "The Swan" probably its most famous movement was not played. However the scene ends with the image of a swan perhaps as a reference to it.   
    On the map of New Penzance Island the island is listed as both 32.265 square miles and 170359.2 square feet.   
    Several scenes were filled at The Yawgoog Scout Reservation including the sailboat (Camp Three Point dam) Fort Lebanon (H. Anthony Cushman Stockade) Wedding Chapel (Adams Gate) supply and resource center (Order of the Arrow Information Center) trampoline kid (Camp Medicine Bow waterfront) various troops camping on field and marching (Challenge center field/high ropes course).   
Lucas Hedges (Redford) played a pump attendant who fills Jopling's motorcycle in The Grand Budapest Hotel (2014) (another Wes Anderson film). Redford also rides a motorcycle.   
    During the conversation after Redford is carried off to the airplane there is an old U.S. flag of the original thirteen states seen flying in the background by the police station.   
    American Humane Association monitored some of the animal action. No animals were harmed in those scenes. AHAD 02926   
    This production participated in the New York State Governor's Office for Motion Picture and Television Development Post-Production Credit Program.   
    Bill Murray and Frances McDormand appeared in Olive Kitteridge (2014).   
Cooper Murray: The Indian Chief Khaki Scout is Bill Murray's real-life son.   
Wes Anderson: ["Peanuts"] The dog is named "Snoopy" and the story is set in the debut year of the groundbreaking cartoon A Charlie Brown Christmas (1965). Rushmore (1998) and The Royal Tenenbaums (2001) also contain numerous "Peanuts" and Charlie Brown references.   
Wes Anderson: [strained marriage] The twice divorced Bill Murray plays a character that has marital issues in this movie. His character also has marital issues in several of his previous collaborations with Wes Anderson including Rushmore (1998) The Royal Tenenbaums (2001) and The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou (2004). His character in Fantastic Mr. Fox (2009) is happily married however.   
Wes Anderson: [divorce] Suzy's parents are on the verge of divorce; the parents in The Darjeeling Limited (2007) and The Royal Tenenbaums (2001) are also divorced.   
Wes Anderson: [absent or deceased parent] Sam is an orphan.   
    The movie opens with a painting of Summer's End and ends with a painting of Moonrise Kingdom. The camera then fades to a shot of the actual campsite Sam is painting from memory after he and Suzy renamed it.   
    DIRECTOR TRADEMARK (Wes Anderson): (dead or endangered dogs): "Snoopy" died in the battle in the woods just as "Buckley" died after being run over by Eli Cash in The Royal Tenenbaums (2001) and the three-legged dog in The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou (2004) is abandoned by its pirate owners and mistreated by Hennessey.   
    The title of the movie comes from the name Sam and Suzy give Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet when they decide they don't like the name; however it is only seen at the end written on the beach in Sam's painting of Moonrise Kingdom/Mile 3.25 Tidal Inlet.   
    Suzy's house is decorated with paintings of locations around the island at the end of the film Sam is making an addition by painting Moonrise Kingdom. This painting is the last record of this location because the Mile 3.25 tidal inlet/Moonrise Kingdom is destroyed by the hurricane.   
    There is a parallelism between The Shawshank Redemption (1994)'s escape scene when the warden discovers how Andy Dufresne had escaped: through a hole in his cell's wall behind a poster; and when Scout Master Ward discovers the hole in the tent covered by a map.   
    When Captain Sharp demands to know where Sam and Suzy went in the church near the end of the movie the scouts of Troop 55 are in disguise when one points Captain Sharp up a ladder to the roof. The one that points Captain Sharp towards Sam and Suzy has a cleft chin and only Nickleby has a cleft chin.  ]
