[
    This movie was filmed at Joss Whedon's Santa Monica home which was designed and decorated by Whedon's wife Kai Cole. Cole suggested Whedon make it in lieu of going on vacation for their 20th anniversary because it had long been his passion project.   
    The film was shot in only 12 days while Joss Whedon was working on Marvel's The Avengers (2012).   
    The scene in which Benedick does push-ups for Beatrice in an attempt to show off was improvised by Alexis Denisof. Joss Whedon admits that he was hesitant in regards to the gag but positive audience reaction allayed his fears.   
    The masquerade party scene was an actual party thrown by Joss Whedon and his wife. All the extras were friends of Joss Whedon and his family or film students and real alcohol was provided for the guests. Only the principle actors abstained drinking colored water instead.   
    When Dogberry and Verges exit for the last time they realize that neither of them has the keys to the car. Nathan Fillion and Tom Lenk improvised this off-camera as the rest of the scene continued. When Joss Whedon realized why the cast was laughing he had the pair recreate the gag on camera.   
    Because of the tight schedule rehearsals were minimal and many shots were done in a single take.   
    In a May 2013 interview Joss Whedon noted that aside from abridging the text he stayed completely true to Shakespeare's original dialogue - except for the Act 2 Scene 3 line in which Benedick says "if I do not / love her I am a Jew." It was changed to "if I do not love her I am a fool."   
Joss Whedon offered Sean Maher the role of Don John after learning Maher had never played a villain before.   
    The movie was filmed in secret with an announcement that principal photography was completed on October 23rd 2011.   
    Several actors/actresses have worked previously with Joss Whedon on one or more of his works:-Nathan Fillion: Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1996) Firefly (2002) and Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog (2008).-Amy Acker: Angel (1999) Dollhouse (2009) and The Cabin in the Woods (2012).-Ashley Johnson: Dollhouse (2009) and The Avengers (2012).-Alexis Denisof: Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1996) Angel (1999) Dollhouse (2009) and The Avengers (2012).-Clark Gregg: The Avengers (2012).-Sean Maher: Firefly (2002).-Riki Lindhome: Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1996).-Fran Kranz: Dollhouse (2009) and The Cabin in the Woods (2012).-Tom Lenk: Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1996) Angel (1999) and The Cabin in the Woods (2012).   
    The commentary for the movie set a Guinness World record for the most people involved in a commentary as it included almost the entire cast.   
Buffy the Vampire Slayer (1996) alumnus Anthony Head was originally set to play Leonato. However he had to drop out due to scheduling conflicts and Clark Gregg was brought in to replace him.   
Joss Whedon wanted to incorporate Steadicams for filming but was unable to due to timing and budget constraints.   
Alexis Denisof (The Other) Amy Acker (Audrey Nathan the Cellist) Nathan Fillion (Gotg Inmate) Reed Diamond (Daniel Whitehall) Jillian Morgese (Restaurant Woman) Ashley Johnson (Avengers Waitress Beth) Spencer Treat Clark (Werner von Strucker) Romy Rosemont (Shawna Lynde) and Clark Gregg (Phil Coulson) have each appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.  ]
