[
Alexander Payne's first experience shooting in black and white with digital cameras and anamorphic lenses. Paramount initially balked at Payne's choice to shoot in black and white but relented when previews yielded positive feedback.   
Bruce Dern claimed that he and Will Forte were stuck in the car for hours while filming the driving scenes because cameras were mounted on both doors. Since they were unable to take bathroom breaks between takes Dern remarked "We found out what bottles are for."   
Bruce Dern is a teetotaler who was an avid marathoner and still runs in his late 70s.   
Alexander Payne's fourth film set in his home state of Nebraska after Citizen Ruth (1996) Election (1999) and About Schmidt (2002).   
Bryan Cranston auditioned for the role of David but director Alexander Payne didn't feel that he was right for the part. Matthew Modine Paul Rudd and Casey Affleck were also considered.   
Gene Hackman Robert Forster Jack Nicholson and Robert Duvall were considered for the role of Woody.   
Alexander Payne tried to get the movie made for several years. The success of The Descendants (2011) finally gave him the clout to do it.   
    A gravestone in the cemetery has the name "Payne" a reference to Alexander Payne.   
    The movie begins and ends with the 1950s and 1960s Paramount logo saying "A Paramount Release".   
Will Forte was cast as David in part because director Alexander Payne believed Forte looked like he could be the child of Bruce Dern and June Squibb.   
Alexander Payne cast June Squibb due to her small role in About Schmidt (2002) another film he wrote and directed. He thought she was such an underrated actress that he wanted to cast her in a bigger role in one of his future films.   
    The first Alexander Payne film that he did not also write the screenplay for and the first since Citizen Ruth (1996) with an original screenplay.   
Bruce Dern's roadside urination is not simulated.   
Alexander Payne typically likes to direct only movies where he also wrote the screenplay. However he stated that (Bob Nelson)'s script was so well-written that he only made minor changes to the final shooting script.   
    Although all the major characters hail from Nebraska leading actors Bruce Dern June Squibb and Bob Odenkirk were born and raised in Illinois.   
Alexander Payne cast Will Forte because he said Forte reminded him of the kind of guy you see around Omaha the largest city in Nebraska. Forte was born and raised in California.   
Alexander Payne advertised an audition in a Nebraska newspaper for the role of a stand-in. Nebraskan Bridget O'Brien got the part.   
    Included among the "1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die" edited by Steven Schneider.   
June Squibb mentions the name Mrs. Hunsaker the name of the character she played in Scent of a Woman (1992).   
Alexander Payne filmed this movie and The Descendants (2011) at the same time. Trying not to stereotype himself as a director of "road trip films" he pushed to film The Descendants (2011) first then this film. The Descendants (2011) also features a small road trip.   
Will Forte and Bob Odenkirk are both alumni of Saturday Night Live (1975).   
    Features June Squibb's only Oscar nominated performance.   
    Some outside bar scenes were filmed in Tilden NE at what is now Subs & Suds.   
    Nebraska is the second Alexander Payne film Missy Doty has appeared in. The first was Sideways (2004).   
Barbara Bain auditioned for a role.   
Bob Nelson: sitting at a booth in the café when everyone is applauding Woody.  ]
