[
    When Morgan Freeman says "These bars give a man time to think." He says the same line in The Shawshank Redemption (1994).   
    The card trick in the opening sequence works in real-life too. There is no editing contrary to popular belief. It is done by performing what is known as a "card force" wherein the magician makes the unsuspecting audience member pick a predetermined card. The audience member believes he picks a random card a belief which is strengthened by the magician usually re-shuffling the deck several times. This is of course just misdirection.   
Isla Fisher has explained in interviews that her character Henley is "germaphobic" which is why she is seen wearing gloves throughout the movie.   
    In the scene before J. Daniel Atlas (Jesse Eisenberg) and Merritt McKinney (Woody Harrelson) enter the secret room McKinney tells Atlas that he is a "bit of a control freak" to which Atlas replies "Have we met before?" This is a nod to a previous film in which Woody Harrelson and Jesse Eisenberg had starred Zombieland (2009).   
    When J. Daniel Atlas (Jesse Eisenberg) and the girl enter his apartment after the introductory card trick a Shrike poster with a dove can be seen on his wall.   
    The carousel shown in Central Park is actually from City Park in New Orleans Louisiana. While the theater shown in New Orleans Louisiana is in Los Angeles California.   
    The final scene was filmed on the Pont des Arts in Paris France which as shown in the film was famous for having an estimated one million "love locks" attached to its railings. However on June 1 2015 city council workmen started to remove the padlocks following years of complaints from locals.   
    After The Four Horsemen get arrested Merrit McKinney (Woody Harrelson) tells the F.B.I. Agent "There's no shame for a man to wear a dress." This is a reference to J. Edgar Hoover long-time Director of the F.B.I. who was revealed to be a cross-dresser after his death.   
    When Alma Dray is reading the newspaper in Paris she reads an old article about Lionel Shrike's death happening in the 1970s. Shrike can be seen in a front-page photo of the article. Shrike in footage news is played by Elias Koteas.   
    In the original draft of the script there was no female in the Four Horsemen.   
Philip Seymour Hoffman Jim Carrey Hugh Grant Sacha Baron Cohen and Colin Firth were considered for the lead roles before it was decided to go for younger leads.   
    The film cast includes three Oscar winners: Morgan Freeman Sir Michael Caine and Common; and three Oscar nominees: Mark Ruffalo Woody Harrelson and Jesse Eisenberg.   
    Thaddeus Bradley (Morgan Freeman) a former magicianwho debunks other magicians shares some similarities with James Randi the famous magician and escape artist. Although James Randi does not and would not reveal another magician's tricks he does debunk psychics and other fraudsters. He is also seen frequently wearing a large hat similar to the one that Thaddeus wears throughout the film.   
Jake Gyllenhaal was considered for the role of Dylan Rhodes.   
    The cards used throughout the film are a luxury deck of cards made by Theory11. They are called Monarchs.   
Amanda Seyfried was considered for the role of Henley Reeves.   
    In the J. Daniel Atlas practice sequence near the start of the film we see the hands of Dan or Dave Buck digitally composited with Jesse Eisenberg's face. These twin brothers are acclaimed sleight of hand artists as well as pioneers in the art of cardistry. Their skills can be seen in Smokin' Aces (2006) and LazyTown (2002) as well. Cardisty is an open display of skill with cards similar to juggling. The sequence of moves performed in the film is called "Pandora" and at the time of filming it was considered one of the most difficult moves in cardistry.   
    When magician Jack Wilder (Dave Franco) is introduced he is working as a pickpocket. In Oliver (1968) young actor Jack Wild played "The Artful Dodger" who was a pickpocket.   
    The book that Merritt McKinney (Woody Harrelson) is reading when the F.B.I. arrests him and the other three Horsemen in the beginning of the film is "The Savage Detectives" by Roberto Bolaño.   
    While in New Orleans Louisiana French INTERPOL Agent Alma Dray (Mélanie Laurent) is wearing a striped shirt. This is a reference to a famous French New Wave film Breathless (1960) in which the main female character Patricia Franchini (Jean Seberg) wears striped clothes throughout the film. This look along with short hair became the "look" throughout the 1960s and 1970s. This "look" has been revamped among celebrities recently as the popular culture looks to French New Wave as a retro and stylish inspiration.   
    If you watch the holographic transmission in the apartment carefully you'll see the word Tri-Mark appear the company that made this film.   
    Sir Michael Caine appeared in another magician movie The Prestige (2006).   
    You can clearly make out a tag of "4H" on the wall under The Three Horsemen when they first appear at their third venue which is outdoors in 5-Points Queens New York.   
Olivia Wilde was offered a role.   
    Morgan Freeman and Common appeared in Wanted (2008).   
Andrea Riseborough was considered for the role of Henley Reeves.   
    After The Four Horsemen get arrested Merrit McKinney (Woody Harrelson) tells the F.B.I. Agent "There's no shame for a man to wear a dress." In Anger Management (2003) Woody played a Security Guard named Gary who was a cross-dresser named Galaxia.   
    In this movie Mark Ruffalo plays a magician. He also plays Bruce Banner the human who turns into The Incredible Hulk. In The Incredible Hulk (1978) Bill Bixby played Dr. David Banner the man who turns into The Incredible Hulk and he also had a television show called The Magician (1973) in which he played the title character.   
    Sir Michael Caine Morgan Freeman and Jesse Eisenberg have appeared in movies based on DC Comics characters. Mark Ruffalo appeared in the Marvel Cinematic Universe.   
Isla Fisher got into difficulty while filming the piranha tank scene. The top of the tank remained opened so that Fisher would be able to swim to the top to get some air and there was also an emergency lever inside the tank that if pulled would alert the crew that she needed help. During one take Fisher was running out of air and tried to swim to the top but the chains on handcuffs she was wearing got stuck on the bottom of the tank so she was unable to swim to the top or pull the lever. She then attempted to alert the crew by hitting the glass of the tank but since her character is supposed to be panicked and scared in the scene the crew thought she was acting. She was stuck for three minutes before the Stunt Coordinator finally realized that something was wrong after he noticed that her handcuffs were stuck.   
    When Jack (Dave Franco) and Dylan (Mark Ruffalo) land in the garbage above the Shrike magician prop-box is an apartment mailbox labelled "Shrike". This is for apartment 6-A and is the apartment of The Four Horsemen previously owned by Lionel Shrike (Richard Laing) and later more importantly his son's apartment.   
    During the interrogation scene Merritt (Woody Harrelson) says that Dylan Rhodes (Mark Ruffalo) has "big daddy issues". Later in the movie proving Merritt's skill as a mentalist it is revealed that Agent Rhodes is the son of Lionel Shrike (Richard Laing).   
    Each of the tarot cards refers to a Horseman. J. Daniel Atlas' (Jesse Eisenberg's) card is the "Lovers" referencing his implied sexual prowess. Merritt McKinney's (Woody Harrelson's) card is the "Hermit" referencing how his brother abandons him and destroys his career leaving him alone and with nothing. Henley Reeves' (Isla Fisher's) card is the "High Priestess" referencing her trick with the bloody tank similar to a blood sacrifice. Jack Wilder's (Dave Franco's) card is "Death" and his is the only card with a meaning that is not explained until late in the movie where he fakes his own death. The Death card in Tarot mainly means change most likely referencing Wilder's change from being seen as a kid at the start to an actual adult at the end.   
    When the Horsemen enter Times Square eyes flicker in and out of visibility in the billboards around them. The last to appear is the same Eye that appears on the merged tarot cards in the park which lingers long enough to be seen clearly almost in the center of the screen.  ]
