[
    In the special features it mentions that the attack on the White House was planned by former Secret Service agents who were asked how they would attack it if they had to.   
    One trailer used in television ads included Emergency Alert System tones. They are used to alert television viewers about real-life emergencies; using them outside of emergency broadcasts or tests violates federal law. In 2014 the FCC fined ESPN Viacom and NBC Universal 1.93 million dollars for broadcasting Emergency Alert System tones in non-emergency broadcasts.   
    Putting North Korean terrorists in the plot was widely viewed as prescient when real-world tensions between North Korea and the U.S. emerged in 2013. In an interview director Antoine Fuqua said he did not want the film's villains to be from the Middle East because he felt other films had covered that to the point of saturation. North Korea was interesting to him because it was completely closed off to the outside world and no one really knew what it wanted or was capable of doing.   
Angela Bassett only took her part because she always wanted to work alongside Morgan Freeman.   
    This was one of two movies released in 2013 with a similar premise which is the garrisoning of the White House by criminals who hold the President hostage. The other was White House Down (2013).   
Morgan Freeman was filming the crisis room scenes in Louisiana at the height of his Internet death hoax. He began each day of filming by serenading the extras with old jazz songs and endeared himself to the unsuspecting crew with pranks.   
    While filming the White House tourist scenes in Louisiana the weather was so hot that the Humane Society representative insisted that the German Shepherds playing K-9 watchdogs stay in an air-conditioned van between shoots.   
    When the U.S. flag is thrown from the top of the White House it can be seen falling upside down. The flag flying upside down is a sign of distress.   
    Cerberus or Hellhound is the three-headed dog that guards the gates of the Underworld in Greek mythology. It keeps those who have died from escaping across the river Styx.   
Gerard Butler was once in consideration to star as CIA operative Mitch Rapp in a proposed film adaptation of Vince Flynn's novels. One's plot is very similar to this film; terrorists seize control of the White House and Rapp must get to the President in his bunker before the terrorists do.   
    For her more physically demanding scenes Melissa Leo did step-ups on an apple box in between takes to keep her heart-rate up. She also wore a brown wig because she needed to keep her hair long while shooting Treme (2010).   
    The role of the Secret Service director was originally written for a man. Antoine Fuqua persuaded Angela Bassett to audition then had the role re-written for a woman.   
    This is the second film in which Rick Yune plays a North Korean terrorist. He played a North Korean arms dealer and terrorist in Die Another Day (2002).   
    Ironically Rick Yune who plays the lead terrorist was born in Washington D.C.   
    This is the second time Dylan McDermott has played a Secret Service Agent. He also played one in In the Line of Fire (1993).   
    The opening theme-song is the same as in Air Force One (1997). However it has been edited to sound more 2013-like.   
Hamish MacDonald is a real Australian news reporter who was at the time working for Channel 10 based in Sydney Australia. He is now based in London as a Foreign Correspondent for ABC News America.   
    This is the fourth film in which Morgan Freeman and Ashley Judd have appeared in together but this is the first time that their characters do not share any screen time together. The other films they worked together in were: Kiss the Girls (1997) High Crimes (2002) Dolphin Tale (2011) and Dolphin Tale 2 (2014).   
Winona Ryder was the studio's first choice to play the First Lady.   
    The intruding aircraft is a modified Lockheed AC-130 itself a modified C-130 Hercules. In the movie the plane has two GE M134 miniguns on each side. In real life the aircraft only has air-to-ground armament on the left side to provide close air support to ground troops among other high-risk tasks.   
    At different points in the Pentagon crisis room the Sergeant Major of the Army the Chief Master Sergeant of the Air Force the Master Chief Petty Officer of the Navy and the Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps can be seen. Each of those people are the highest ranking non-commissioned officers of their respective branches of the military and are the ones in charge of overseeing the activities and deployment of the enlisted ranks. During a crisis like this they as well as the Joint Chief's of Staff who are all four star Generals or Rear Admirals and the highest ranking officers of each branch of the military are brought in not only for their protection but also to help with strategics.   
    The interceptor planes are Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor jets designed for air superiority and intercept roles.   
    When Banning gives Conner his badge you can see that it is somewhat different from the badges the other Secret Service Agents carry. That is because Banning has been working for the Treasury Department so he is carrying the badge of a Treasury Agent.   
    The typeface used for the word "Olympus" in the poster is the same as that of the logo of company "Olympus" manufacturer of optics and cameras.   
    The film pays homage to Die Hard & has a lot of allusions & similarities. Cole Hauser (Roma) played Collins in A Good Day To Die Hard.   
Dylan McDermott and Robert Forster appeared together in Automata (2014).   
    When Speaker Trumbull tells Mike he has thirty minutes left there is actually thirty minutes left in the movie at that point.   
    Body Count: 168.   
    After the attack on the White House and kidnapping of the President and Vice President Speaker Allan Trumbull (Morgan Freeman) becomes Acting President of the United States. Freeman previously played the President of United States in Deep Impact (1998).   
    Whether it's coincidence or homage Olympus Has Fallen contains a few allusions to the movie Die Hard (1988): The traitor who leads the North Koreans to the White House is ex-Secret Service Agent Davey Forbes. Die Hard villain Hans Gruber mentions to Mr. Takagi that he read an article about his company's wealth on Forbes. In Olympus the scene where Forbes finds Banning and casually smokes a cigarette before trying to kill him is similar to the Die Hard scene where McClane finds Hans in a storage area and has a cigarette with him before Hans tries to kill him. Also Banning plays a cat-and-mouse game with Kang in Olympus via radio just like McClane plays a cat-and-mouse game with Hans in Die Hard via walkie talkie.   
    After the drone spots the team of helicopters it shows the choppers flying to D.C. and we clearly see an undamaged Washington Monument which had been destroyed earlier.   
    After the take-over of the White House is complete Kang says his team did it in 13 minutes. This is a reference to the year the film was released - 2013.  ]
