[
    Approximately a hundred Kaijus and a hundred Jaegers were designed but only a fraction of them appeared in the film. Every week the filmmakers held a vote for their favorites.   
    According to Travis Beacham in an earlier version of the script Mako and Raleigh spoke two different languages for a majority of the film. After connecting as pilots they slowly began to understand one another and before the end they heard each other speaking in their own respective languages. The only remnant of a language barrier is when Raleigh speaks to Mako in Japanese and she is surprised he knows her home language.   
    When little Mako is in the alleyway every object on the set was rigged to the same hydraulic system. Whenever the giant monster was to take a step everything bounced or shook in unison including the puddles.   
    "Kaiju" is a Japanese word that literally translates to "strange beast." It is usually used to refer to giant monsters from Japanese science-fiction films such as Gojira (1954).   
    (At around 1 hour 25 minutes) The inside of the building that Gipsy's fist smashes through was created using miniatures. Many of the components of the office cubicles were made using 3-D printers. The lighting was practical and done to scale. Once the set was ready a large green mandrel was rammed through it. This was digitally replaced with Gipsy's fist.   
    Screenwriter Travis Beacham also wrote the graphic novel Pacific Rim: Tales from Year Zero. Released along with the movie "Tales from Year Zero" serves as a prologue to the film and is set twelve years before its events.   
    A life-sized version of the robot cockpit was built on a soundstage at Pinewood Studios in Toronto Canada. It weighed about twenty tons and stood nearly four stories high. It was built on a gigantic hydraulic gimbal which would move shake vibrate drop and rock the entire set as if it were actually being piloted. A smaller version was also built with a smaller gimbal allowing for different movements. The VFX team used some of the Conn-pod footage for reference while animating the robots. The set was also redressed to depict the interior of each robot differently.   
Travis Beacham the screenwriter got the idea for the movie while walking along the California coastline on a foggy morning. The shape of the pier looked like a creature rising from the water and he imagined a large robot waiting on the shore to battle it.   
    The sound for the Kaiju's roars were comprised of layer upon layer of animal roars and growls which were filtered sped up and slowed down to create the roar of alien behemoths. Then to add emotion and a sense of intelligence supervising sound editor Scott Martin Gershin and director Guillermo del Toro added samples of their own voices.   
    Visual effects supervisor John Knoll and director Guillermo del Toro spent several weeks discussing the physics of the giant characters and went into very specific detail such as how the air displacement from a Jaeger moving between skyscrapers would shake the building's windows.   
    Though the giant monsters were always intended to be computer generated all of their designs were expanded from the notion that they could be "worn as suits" like in traditional kaiju films.   
    In Hungary trailers for the movie couldn't mention the name of the main robot Gipsy Danger because it was offensive to the Roma a large ethnic group in the country. The name is spoken freely in the Hungarian dubbed version but it's left in English. It's a reference to a type of airplane engine not the people in question.   
    Gipsy Danger is named after the "de Havilland Gipsy" aircraft engine. This was intended as a nostalgic nod to the World War II era which was a major influence in the design of the robot.   
    The computer is voiced by Ellen McLain who also voiced GLaDOS the A.I. from Portal (2007) and Portal 2 (2011). This is in fact a cameo by GLaDOS as Guillermo del Toro was such a fan of the games that he approached the game's developers Valve who approved. Del Toro said in an interview for the Toronto Sun "I wanted very much to have her because I'm a big Portal fan. But just as a wink. She's not cake-obsessed. She's not out to destroy humanity." He further explained "Look there's no A.I. I'd rather have than GlaDOS but McLain's voice in the movie due in theaters July 12th has been modulated a bit to be less similar to the distinctive tone of Portal's unforgettable antagonist. The filter we're using is slightly less GLaDOS. Slightly. The one in the trailer I wanted to be full-on GlaDOS." The GLaDOS voice itself is inspired by the computer in The Thirteenth Floor (1999).   
    The film takes place in 2013 2020 and 2025.   
    One of the art directors said this is the first time they dressed a set using forklifts and jackhammers. Much of the set is made with real materials unlike most sets.   
    Karloff one of the kaiju from the opening sequence is named after Boris Karloff. The nickname was given because the creature's head resembles the dessicated face of Karloff's The Mummy (1932) character Imhotep.   
    This was both director Guillermo del Toro and cinematographer Guillermo Navarro's first experience shooting with digital cameras. Navarro bought seven Red Epic cameras specifically for the film and used his own lenses as he prefers shooting with his own camera equipment over renting it.   
    Gipsy Danger is painted and detailed to resemble a World War II fighter plane. There is nose art on its chest.   
    When asked why the pilots yell out to one another despite being telepathically linked Travis Beacham said that doing so helps them stay focused.   
    In March 2013 YouTube channel "Dumb Drum" created a "sweded" version of Pacific Rim (2013)'s trailer. Less than two weeks later Guillermo del Toro commented on the video at WonderCon 2013 calling it a "masterpiece" and saying that it inspired him to create the second trailer for the film. He also invited the filmmakers to the Hollywood premiere. When the film was released on home video Legendary Pictures contacted "Dumb Drum" and asked for their help promoting the release. In October 2013 they released several "sweded" versions of scenes from the movie. These new videos were made fifteen-second intervals for sharing on social media websites.   
    The Jaegers are a staple of Japanese anime where they are often called mecha. Similar to many mecha anime series Jaegers are controlled from within by human pilots distinguishing them from other depictions of robots as automated sentient or externally controlled.   
    This was the first Guillermo del Toro film to feature Ron Perlman as a human character since Cronos (1993).   
Max Martini is 14 years older than Robert Kazinsky who plays his son.   
    Ron Perlman kept the shoes he wore on this film. Later on his wife had them melted down and converted into a pair of heels for herself.   
Guillermo del Toro drew inspiration from paintings including Francisco Goya's "The Colossus" and Hokusai's "The Great Wave off Kanagawa."   
    The character of Mako Mori is much younger than Stacker "Marshall" Pentecost although in real life Rinko Kikuchi is only eight years younger than Idris Elba.   
    The set was built as a non-destroyed Hong Kong then destroyed and redressed to play as a different area post-monster battle. The Hong Kong set was used as four different streets and sets with the placement and dressing of elements changed each time.   
    "Jaeger" is the German word for hunter.   
    The title screen does not appear until seventeen minutes into the film.   
    Guillermo del Toro did not shoot the film with 3D in mind and was initially opposed to the idea of converting it into the format when the studio suggested it. He agreed only on four conditions - that the scale of the kaiju and jaegers be maintained in 3D without overemphasizing the effect and miniaturizing them that the conversion be given a generous 40-week schedule to ensure its quality that the CGI elements were rendered natively in stereo 3D and that he be allowed to supervise the conversion process.   
    (At around 55 minutes) A prominent street sign in Hong Kong identifies the intersection of "Tull Street" and "Fong Street." Thomas Tull is the president of Legendary Pictures (which financed the film) and Henry Fong is one of the film's concept artists.   
    Striker Eureka the white Australian Jaeger was initially chosen to be the "Hero Jaeger" of the film but Guillermo Del Toro thought it's appearance was "too cold" and "arrogant".   
Stellan Skarsgård was considered for the role of Herc Hansen.   
Ron Perlman and Charlie Hunnam have also shared the screen in Sons of Anarchy (2008) and 3 2 1... Frankie Go Boom (2012).   
    In the weeks before the film's release several popular YouTube channels collaborated with the filmmakers to produce a short video titled "Pacific Rim: Training Day." The short even features a brief cameo by director Guillermo del Toro. The collaborating channels included Jesse Cox Press Heart to Continue Total Biscuit Husky Starcraft Game Grumps Crabcat Industries and The Game Station.   
    Director Guillermo del Toro was inspired by the anime and tokusatsu of his youth. He specifically cited Tetsujin nijûhachi-go (1963) as a major influence. Despite this he wanted to avoid referencing other works of fiction in the design of the robots and monsters.   
    The movie is dedicated to the memory of "monster masters" Ray Harryhausen stop-motion animator for movies like The 7th Voyage of Sinbad (1958) and Ishirô Honda director of Gojira (1954) and many other kaiju features. Honda was born on May 7 1911. Harryhausen died on May 7 2013.   
Tom Cruise was considered for the Idris Elba role.   
    (At around 1 hour 25 minutes) When the Gipsy Danger is fighting the second Kaiju in Hong Kong it punches through a building and sets off a set of Newton's Balls or Newton's Cradle. The scientist that the Kaiju was chasing is named Dr. Newton Geizler.   
    This film was sent to movie theaters under the name "Still Seas."   
    Ron Perlman's character Hannibal Chau could be named after James Hong's character Hannibal Chew in Blade Runner (1982) as Guillermo del Toro has named the film as a huge inspiration for him as a director.   
    Even though the filmmakers stated repeatedly that they did not want to reference any other mecha or kaiju works they have admitted to accidentally doing so. For example "jaeger" is also the name of one of the mech designs from the FASA mechcommander universe of the Inner Sphere faction. Also the scene with Otachi searching for Dr. Newton Geizler is very reminiscent of the film The War of the Gargantuas (1966) during which a giant monster looks for a main human character who is hiding underground.   
    The small badge on Stacker Pentecost's dress uniform is the U.S. Army's Air Assault Badge.   
    Otachi's tail was originally a feature of a completely different kaiju dubbed "Meathead" which was cut from the film.   
Taylor Kitsch Aaron Taylor-Johnson Aaron Paul Luke Bracey and Henry Cavill were considered for the role of Raleigh Becket.   
    The aircraft carrier transporting the Kaiju carcass is the United States Navy's USS John C. Stennis (CVN-74). The hull number 74 is visible on the flight deck's island.   
    The screenplay had forty pages of suit work and Legacy constructed thirty-four suits for the movie.   
    Several countries created their own Jaegars including: The USA Canada Australia Japan China Russia Singapore India The Philippines Denmark The United Kingdom Ireland New Zealand Malaysia Jamaica Mexico Spain Peru Argentina and Chile.   
    Two actors who were considered for this movie happened to be in similar movies ("military personnel versus alien invasion" theme) around the same time: Taylor Kitsch (considered for Raleigh) in Battleship (2012) and Tom Cruise in Edge of Tomorrow (2014).   
    Director Guillermo del Toro and screenwriter Travis Beacham went through fifteen drafts of the script.   
Neil Cross Patrick Melton and Marcus Dunstan did some uncredited rewrites of the screenplay.   
    In the beginning before facing the Kaiju Knifehead Gipsy Danger performs its "neural handshake" and then afterwards slowly puts her hands together like she's praying (with elbows out) except her left hand is closed and her right hand is covering it. This is a centuries-old greeting/salutation in martial arts between peers and combatants and was a sign of mutual respect (Specifically Chinese styles such as Wushu Shaolin and Wing Chun utilized this salutation) The closed fist represents the preparation to fight and the act of covering the fist is similar to keeping a sword sheathed until combat. This act is also a sign of discipline and restraint (from abusing its power) demonstrating it is no threat and has peaceful intentions without provocation.   
    The Jaegers are similar to Xenogears robots in a game of the same name made for the original Playstation in that they are piloted from inside to fight monsters.   
    A sequel called Pacific Rim: Uprising (2018) was announced in 2017 and will be released five years after this film.   
Drew Pearce did an uncredited re-write of the script.   
    Doctors Herman Gottlieb and Newton Geiszler share names with mathematicians Sir Isaac Newton and David Gottlieb.   
    Names Aleksis and Sasha Kaidanovsky look to be allusion for the name of Russian actor Alexandr Kaydanovskiy (Stalker in Andrei Tarkovsky's movie). Sasha in Russian is a small name for Alexander.   
Guillermo del Toro: [casting] friend Santiago Segura in the cast.   
    When Mako falls into her memory of being attacked as a little girl the transition from the cockpit of the Jaeger to the Japanese street was all done on set.   
    The one minute explosion countdown actually takes one minute to set off in the movie.  ]
