[
Dwayne Johnson bulked up to nearly three hundred pounds for his role in this movie.   
Anthony Mackie put on seventeen pounds of muscle for his role and bulked up to 213 pounds. He had only three weeks to train before filming began.   
    At just over twenty million dollars this movie stands as Michael Bay's lowest-budgeted film since his feature film debut Bad Boys (1995). Bay Mark Wahlberg and Dwayne Johnson took pay cuts to keep the budget down.   
    For his role as a body builder Mark Wahlberg bulked up to 212 pounds for this film.   
    The home of Frank Griga belongs to Michael Bay. It is also the former Miami home of Hulk Hogan seen often in Hogan Knows Best (2005).   
Michael Bay wanted Mark Wahlberg to be as tan as possible. So Wahlberg throughout filming had to get a full-body fake tan every week for the movie.   
    When Adrian presents a dog to his girlfriend Robin the Dexter (2006) apartment building in the background can be seen.   
    When Dwayne Johnson rode in Daniel's car the t-tops had to be removed because he was so tall he could not fit in the car otherwise.   
Rebel Wilson an avid nunchucks user brought her own nunchucks for the sex scene to "spice things up."   
Mark Wahlberg was in the process of trying out supplements from his own line of body-building products while bulking up for this role. So he said he effectively got a body-builder physique by using his own products.   
    The character of Johnny Wu is based on Tuan 'Tommy' Vu the 1980s-90s "King of the Infomercials."   
Michael Bay had been wanting to make this film since 2000. He delayed doing it multiple times in favor of the Transformers (2007) franchise. He specifically said that after those movies he wanted to make a small inexpensive film as a change of pace.   
Albert Brooks was considered for the role of Victor Kershaw (based off of Marc Schiller) but a deal could not be reached and John Turturro was cast instead. Turturro dropped out due to scheduling conflicts and Tony Shalhoub was cast.   
Mark Wahlberg said that his sons loved the enormous muscular body-builder physique that he was sporting during filming but his daughters hated it.   
Michael Bay's first R-rated movie since Bad Boys II (2003).   
Mark Wahlberg weighed in at 165 pounds before getting the role in this movie and he had to be at least 200 pounds when filming would begin. He packed on over forty pounds of muscle in seven weeks for this role weighing in at 212 pounds when filming began.   
    The movie's title is a paraphrase of the common maxim "No pain no gain" which in turn is a paraphrase of a line from a 1758 issue of Poor Richard's Almanack by Benjamin Franklin "There are no gains without pains." Franklin is said to have based the rhyming phrase on a first century Jewish proverb.   
    In real life John Mese (played by Rob Corddry) was actually more involved with the kidnapping and also was in his 50's. Although he was never physically involved with the kidnapping he was aware of what was happening. Along with notarizing the documents he was also an accountant. He was responsible for helping the Sun Gym gang open up fake businesses and accounts to launder all the money. During trial he was offered a plea bargain of 9 years (minus the 2 1/2 years he had already been in jail for the trial). He turned it down and instead was found guilty and sentenced to 56 years in prison. Additionally he had a history with the private detective Ed Du Bois (played by Ed Harris) as in the past they went to school together and helped each other with business. This further complicated the early investigation as initially the private detective refused to believe his old friend from school could have been involved in such a crime. It wasn't until John Mese allowed Ed Du Bois to search his office that his guilt became obvious. John Mese did not realize that Lugo (Mark Wahlberg) and his gang had left written paper records of their kidnapping plans and forgot documents in the office trash bin. That was the first time the private detective and police began to believe that the story was true.   
    When Ed Harris pretends to be a client at the gym he says he works in "lawn and garden." He spent several years doing all of the commercial voice-overs and radio ads for Home Depot.   
    Mark Wahlberg underwent an intense physical training routine which also included eating twelve meals a day. He had to continue this regimen during filming.   
    The real Victor Kershaw (real name Marc Schiller) was actually arrested and convicted for a false Medicare billing fraud scheme right as he was leaving the courtroom as a victim/witness on the day the death sentences were passed for his kidnappers. Kershaw/Schiller and Delgato (one of the REAL LIFE gym members who is partially represented by Dwayne Johnson's character) had participated in a Medicare fraud scheme together (before the events of his kidnapping). This scheme netted them over 14 million. During testimony the Assistant State Attorney knew Kershaw/Schiller was under federal investigation during the 3 years of the kidnapping/murder trial. However she held off the Feds and kept that quiet in order to extract as much evidence and testimony from Kershaw/Schiller as possible. The judge who ended up sentencing the gym kidnappers (and murderers) to death was also the same judge who now had to sentence Kershaw/Schiller for his fraud scheme. Due to having sympathy and compassion for Kershaw/Schiller experience with the kidnapping (along with having the courage to relive and testify his ordeal) the judge actually provided his OWN favorable testimony about Kershaw/Schiller at sentencing. The judge then give him only 46 months in federal prison. Which was the minimum amount of prison time legally allowed.   
    The Seven Seas Motel where Victor Kershaw stayed was also used as a crime scene in Dexter (2006).   
    The names had to be changed because some of the real people involved in the crime are in jail and there could have been legal issues.   
    Dwayne Johnson character was actually based on a combination of several different Sun Gym members. Each one had different levels of involvements during the 2 kidnappings. Ultimately the 15 year sentence Dwayne Johnson's character receives was based on real life Sun Gym member Jorge Delgado. Delgado was actually a business partner with Marc Schiller (in the movie named Victor Kershaw played by Tony Shalhoub) and was involved in a 14 million Medicare billing fraud scheme with him. Schiller/Kershaw then went on to cut Delgado out of some of that money. It was because Delgado was a cousin-in-law of Adrian Doorbal (played by Anthony Mackie) that Lugo (played by Mark Wahlberg) knew who he was. In real life Lugo had never worked with or met Schiller/Kershaw until he heard about him from Doorbal and began planning the kidnapping.   
    This film directed by Michael Bay stars Dwayne Johnson a.k.a. "The Rock." One previous Bay film was The Rock (1996) where the title referred to the Alcatraz fortress and had nothing to do with Johnson. Both movies also feature Ed Harris.   
    One of the several Sun Gym gang criminals Dwayne John's character was comprised of was John Raimondo. He was 6'5" 250 lbs a power-lifter karate expert and a six-year employee of the Metro-Dade County Corrections Department who (when he wasn't guarding inmates at the county jail) liked to brag he was out committing home invasions. John Raimondo was the actual person who they approached and payed to help them with disposing of the 2 bodies. In return Doorbal and Lugo payed him 9000 a Rolex watch (which was actually Marc Schiller's [in the movie named Victor Kershaw played by Tony Shalhoub]) and gave him the Lamborghini Diablo (which he then had to get rid of because it was evidence). John Raimondo later pleaded guilty to one count of kidnapping and was sentenced to eight years in prison.   
    Paul speaks about hitting rock bottom during the movie it's a direct reference to his WWE days when he wrestled under the nickname "The Rock" and used a finishing move called Rock Bottom.   
    Early in his WWE career Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson would often go to the ring in what he boasted were 500 shirts. In the scene where Paul (Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson) and Sorina (Bar Paly) are walking into a hotel after going shopping Johnson is wearing a lavishly designed silk Versace shirt. He wore this exact same shirt in WWE and can even be seen wearing a replica of it in his "Nation of Domination" Classic Superstars action figure.   
    The second movie where Mark Wahlberg and Michael Rispoli work together. Also the second one based on a true story. The first one was Invincible (2006).   
    The book the Motel Clerk was reading is The Master Spy: The Story of Kim Philby - by Phillip Knightley.   
    The name of the gun shop that they go to is called Johnson Fire Arms. Paul Doyle is played by Dwayne Johnson.   
Kurt Angle: the popular wrestler had another go with his old WWE opponent Dwayne Johnson in the prison brawl scene at the beginning of the film.   
Wladimir Klitschko: At the beginning of the film Lugo holds the punching bag for a heavyweight champion who is wearing a USA shirt.   
Vitaly Zdorovetskiy: the well-known Miami prankster of YouTube is briefly seen going down the stairs as Lugo goes up following the kidnapping.   
    As of 2014 Daniel Lugo and Adrian Doorbal are still on death row.   
    In reality Judge Alex Ferrer as seen on Judge Alex (2005) was the judge during the trial.   
    Though based on a true story some scenes such as the "hands barbecue" scene are creative additions by the filmmakers.   
    During the real crime a third party helped in the dismantling of Krisztina Futon and Frank Griga bodies. He refused to be named so the writer left him out of the movie.   
    When Daniel and Adrian are chopping up the bodies of Griga and his wife they strip down and Dan is wearing Calvin Klein boxer briefs. Early in his career Mark Wahlberg modeled Calvin Klein underwear.   
    Right after Paul Doyle (Dwayne Johnson) steals money from the armored truck and is hiding in the hair salon one of the old women is reading a Playboy Magazine.  ]
