[
    The parents in the film played by Stephen Dunham and Alexondra Lee were a real life married couple. Sadly Stephen Dunham died on September 14 2012 of a heart attack shortly before the film was theatrically released.   
Brady Allen's character Robbie was named after Robbie Mannheim a child that in 1959 was an alleged victim of an evil possession and he had an exorcism to save his life.   
    The chronological order of the films is: Paranormal Activity 3 (2011) Paranormal Activity 2 (2010)Paranormal Activity (2007) Paranormal Activity 4 (2012) Paranormal Activity: The Marked Ones (2014) and Paranormal Activity: Ghost Dimension.   
    The first actual sequel in the series. The prior two sequels were prequels.   
Stephen Dunham's last film.   
    As with the previous three Paranormal Activity movies Paramount Studios utilizes paranormal investigator/researcher Christopher Chacon (who is recognized as one of the world's foremost authorities on paranormal phenomena) to internationally promote and publicize this fourth installment. Chacon also works in the entertainment industry as a writer director and producer.   
    (at around 24 mins) WILHELM SCREAM: Doug is watching an action movie on TV. Automatic gunfire can be heard followed by the Wilhelm scream.   
    Though it may seem like a novel concept incorporating a laptop camera into "Paranormal Activity 4" played an important practical role in the filmmaking. "Anything can go on behind and she wouldn't necessarily know unless the person on the other end of the video chat told her that it was behind her" Schulman said. "It just seemed like a really fun way to carry a camera and film yourself because otherwise there's no other way to shoot close-ups in a 'Paranormal' movie. Usually you're filming forward so this way you can actually get a reaction shot."   
    Body Count: 4 (not counting Kristi and Daniel; it's also debatable if Alex dies or not)   
    The footprints on the wall of Wyatt's room directly behind his bed match the footprints of the demon in the first Paranormal Activity when baby powder is used to track it.  ]
