[
    During the last few weeks leading up to the film's release Laika sent 49 packages to 49 people (including Neil Gaiman and Kevin Smith and Jenny "The Bloggess" Lawson). Each package consisted of a wooden crate from "Blithe Hollow" full of "grave dirt" which recipients had to dig through to unearth a coffin. Inside the coffin was one of the seven cursed zombies complete with background information and name.   
    The story is set in the town of Blithe Hollow whose name is a mash-up of two other ghost stories: Noël Coward's Blithe Spirit and Washington Irving's The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.   
    Animating the cheesy horror film that Norman is watching at the start of the movie was reportedly very difficult for the film makers as they had to intentionally make a bad film (bad camera angles poor focus bad "acting" etc) while still working in the very technically demanding confines of stop motion animation    
    The film company Laika used 3D printers to generate all of the different faces needed for the characters. Except the zombies which had mechanical faces with silicone skins.   
    The film was shot using a Canon 5D Mark II DSLR Camera. To generate the 3D effects the camera was mounted on a special rig that would take one shot then slide to a slightly different viewpoint to take another shot.   
    Save for Judge Hopkins the seven cursed zombies are not referred to by name but they did have names: the aforementioned Judge Hopkins Eben Hardwick Thaddeus Blackton Lemuel Spalding Amelia Wilcot Goodie Temper and Wile London.   
    Final film of Elaine Stritch before her death on July 17 2014.   
Jeff Garlin based his performance of Perry Babcock on his best friend Judd Apatow.   
    This is the second time Jodelle Ferland plays a character who is accused of witchcraft and gets burned for it. The first being Alessa in Silent Hill (2006).   
    Norman's ring tone is the Halloween movie theme song   
Leslie Mann's 2nd Animated Film after Rio (2011).   
Jeff Garlin's 4th Theatrically Released Animated Film after WALL·E (2008) Toy Story 3 (2010) and Cars 2 (2011) as well as Garlin's first Animated Film to not be from Disney/Pixar and his first animated film to be Rated PG by the MPAA.   
Christopher Mintz-Plasse' 2nd Animated Film after How to Train Your Dragon (2010).   
    Laika's 2nd Film and first film of the 2010s.   
    This is the first Laika film to be produced in a 2.35:1 widescreen aspect ratio; all of that company's previous films were produced in 1.85:1.   
    Neil's older brother Mitch the typical dumb jock may be the first openly gay animated character in a "kids" movie.   
    Norman's uncle's last name is Prenderghast which is the same as Aggie's implying she and Norman may be related.   
    After the angry mob comes to terms with the zombies Norman asks to borrow his fathers car. Norman and his father are driving down the street past a neon sign that says 'witchy wieners' - the 'w' in witchy flickers out leaving a humourous result.  ]
