[
    When sitting down with Michelle Pfeiffer to discuss the character of Lillian Alex Kurtzman decided on a more naturalistic slightly disheveled look for the role. As he described it: "this woman probably hasn't put on make-up in a year. She's been sitting by her dying husband's side and when we first meet her in the movie that's where she's at. If we're too glamorous in this portrayal it'll ring totally false." Pfeiffer agreed wholeheartedly and altered her otherwise glamorous image to play the grieving widow.   
Michelle Pfeiffer tried to get a scene removed where her character slaps Chris Pine across the face. Pfeiffer felt that it would be difficult for her character to redeem herself in the eyes of the audience. However the scene remains in the film.   
Alex Kurtzman spent two weeks prior to principal photography rehearsing with the entire cast; a practice rarely done for a Hollywood movie.   
Rachel McAdams was considered for the lead role but Elizabeth Banks was later cast.   
Michael Hall D'Addario beat out hundreds of child actors for the role of Josh.   
Hilary Swank read the script and pursued a role in the film but was ultimately turned down.   
Meryl Streep was considered for a role. Ultimately Michelle Pfeiffer was cast.   
Amy Adams was considered for the lead role but dropped out to spend time with her family.   
    The screenplay for this film was featured in the 2010 Blacklist; a list of the "most liked" unmade scripts of the year.   
    Second collaboration between Elizabeth Banks & Olivia Wilde.   
    Post production was temporarily delayed while additional scenes featuring Michelle Pfeiffer Chris Pine and Olivia Wilde could be shot in Los Angeles in July 2011.   
    When frankie & josh get to the apartment Josh opens the door then pretends to unlock the deadbolt   
    Elizabeth Banks's character plays a sister to Chris Pine's. In real life Pine has a sister named Elizabeth.    
    Michelle Pfeiffer starred in a movie with Al Pacino with her character's name as Frankie the same as the name of Elizabeth Banks' character's name in this movie.   
    The director Alex was also a producer on Star Trek (2009) and Star Trek Into Darkness (2013) in which Chris Pine stars as James T Kirk.   
    Italian censorship visa  106435 delivered on 1-8-2012.  ]
