[
Brittany Snow said that Rebel Wilson improvised most of her lines and would go on 20-minute tangents that would have the whole cast and crew in stitches.   
    During the Riff-Off Ester Dean sings S&M; which was co-written by her.   
    The story line between Bumper and Fat Amy was not in the script. Adam Devine and Rebel Wilson would improvise during their scenes together and Devine would often try to kiss her. This led to Devine and Wilson to create a backstory for their two characters and their relationship. The filmmakers thought the hostile sexual chemistry between the two was funny and kept some of the scenes in the film though according to the two actors there was a lot that was cut out including a reference to a one-night stand.   
Adam Devine (Bumper) accidentally hit a cameraman with one of the burritos he had to throw out of the bus.   
Elizabeth Banks and John Michael Higgins filmed all their scenes in one day.   
    The song that Beca performs at her audition "Cups (Miss Me When I'm Gone)" is a combination of a children's rhythmic percussion game played with drinking cups with a song that dates back to the late 1920s or early 1930s: "When I'm Gone" written by A.P. Carter and first recorded by his seminal folk-country group "The Carter Family." The song and the game were first combined in 2009 by the British group "Lulu and the Lampshades;" Anna Kendrick heard this version and decided to include it in her audition scene. In the U.S. the song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 93 for the week ending January 12 2013 even before the song was released as a single. By its 32nd week on that chart it had climbed to number 6 (for the week ending August 17 2013).   
    Available categories for the Riff off: Ladies of the 80s Songs About Sex Black Michael Jackson White Michael Jackson Christian Rock Hair Bands TV Theme Songs Reggae Time Medium Rock The Judds Famous Duets Overplayed The Black Eyed Peas Puppet Songs Songs Glee (2009) Ruined Party Rock Anthems Ugly Lead Singers The only categories exercised were Songs About Sex and Ladies of the 80's.   
    Despite being an accomplished songwriter this served as the first live-action acting role for Ester Dean who plays Cynthia Rose.   
    A special screening of the film was held on 25 September 2012 at the LSU Student Union Theater because parts of the movie were filmed on LSU's campus. The turnout for the screening was so great that only a little more than half of the students in line got in to see the movie. The producer saw that there were more students wanting to see the film and allowed a second showing immediately following the first.   
Anna Kendrick said on the Late Show with David Letterman: Episode 20.19 (2012) that she learned her audition song "You're Going to Miss Me When I'm Gone" performed with the plastic cup from a viral video. It was incorporated into the movie after the producers learned she already knew how to do it.   
    In real life Skylar Astin (Jesse) is married to Anna Camp (Aubrey). They were married September 10 2016   
    The role of Gail was originally written for Kristen Wiig but she declined due to scheduling conflicts. Elizabeth Banks one of the film's producers eventually took the role.   
    Things Lilly says almost inaudibly during the movie: "My name is Lilly (surname) and I was born with gills like a fish" (Aca auditions) "What happened last year? And do you guys want to see a dead body?" (First new Bellas rehearsal scene)  "I did a stint in County" (In Beca's room after she is released from police custody) "I set fires to feel joy" (to Donald on the Treble's bus) "I ate my twin in the womb." (Group confessions)   
Kelley Jakle (Jessica) was an actual ICCA-winner in 2008 and 2010 with the USC SoCal Vocals. Ben Bram who worked in the music department of the film also won the ICCAs with the 2008 and 2010 USC SoCal Vocals.   
    At one point while Beca is attending the activities fair and checking out the booth for the DJs (Deaf Jews) a spirited game of Quidditch (from the Harry Potter books and movies) can be seen going on in the background including players straddling broomsticks and one player shouting "Throw me the Quaffle" Simulated Quidditch games have been enacted on a number of university campuses in recent years.   
    The gas station the girls' bus stops at is actually a Kean's dry cleaners in Baton Rouge LA. The Dean's has since closed.   
    In the Riff-Off scene one of the categories is "Songs Ruined By Glee (2009)." Anna Camp (Aubrey) guest starred in Glee: Sectionals (2009). Moreover Skylar Astin and Lea Michele (Glee (2009)'s lead actress) worked together on the original Broadway production of the musical "Spring Awakening". Furthermore Skylar Astin guest starred in Glee: City of Angels (2014) and an episode of Glee. Finally Anna Kendrick (Beca) Rebel Wilson (Fat Amy) Elizabeth Banks (Gail) and Matthew Morrison (Will Schuester from Glee (2009)) appeared together in What to Expect When You're Expecting (2012).   
    Although never working together before Anna Kendrick (Beca) and Skylar Astin (Jesse) share a connection with the prestigious performing arts camp Stagedoor Manor in upstate New York. Astin attended the camp for multiple years and appeared in the documentary Stagedoor (2006) and Kendrick starred in Camp (2003) which was based on and filmed at Stagedoor Manor.   
Ester Dean's character Cynthia Rose is named after a child mentioned in the Prince song "Starfish and Coffee."   
    The song "Starships" is sung in the movie as a background song. It is sung a capella by everyone in the movie but it is not on the Pitch Perfect movie soundtrack CD.   
    The film's three leads Anna Kendrick Rebel Wilson Skylar Astin are all left-handed.   
    References to Chris Rock and the E television network were stricken from the French subtitles probably due to their lack of notoriety among French audiences.   
    Beca's headphones are Sony MDR-7506 and Beyer Dynamic DT770pro both large diaphragm closed earcup designs favored among DJs and broadcasters.   
John Michael Higgins played a member of the "Tone Rangers" a cappella group in the movie The Break-Up (2006).   
    When Beca (Anna Kendrick) enters the campus radio station for the first time a voice is heard saying "95.7 WBUJ" and the slogan "music for the independent mind." This is actually the slogan of 88.9 WERS the Emerson College radio station.   
    The song playing in the car Jesse is first seen in is "Carry On Wayward Son" by Kansas.   
    Despite all playing college-age students Rebel Wilson Anna Camp and Adam Devine were significantly older than their respective characters by at least 8 years.   
    The second collaboration between Elizabeth Banks and John Michael Higgins the first being Fred Claus (2007) where they played Elves.   
    ICCAs stands for International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella.   
    Anna Kendrick (Beca) and Utkarsh Ambudkar (Donald) both acted opposite each other as lovers in Rocket Science (2007)   
    When the Bella's ditch their uniforms for the final performance each member incorporates the gold scarf into their new outfits: Becca Amy Cynthia Rose Jessica and Ashley wears the scarf on their wrist; Aubrey and Denise tie it around their necks and Lilly and Chloe appear to have extras as Lilly has one tied around her microphone and in her back pocket and Chloe wears the scarf as a belt (which appears to be two scarves tied together).   
Adam Devine and Rebel Wilson both acted opposite each other in Workaholics: Straight Up Juggahos (2011).   
    Beca has an Allen Ginsberg poster in her dorm room.   
Elizabeth Banks and John Michael Higgins do the announcing in the movie and they do so in a goofy manner a reference to John Michael Higgins who portrayed a dog handler in the movie Best in Show (2000) where Fred Willard one of the announcers also announces in a goofy manner.   
    Barden University is a fictional educational institution.   
    All the Barden University scenes were filmed on the campus of LSU in Baton Rouge Louisiana.   
    During the orientation before their first practice Aubrey tells the Bellas they will practice 'at least two hours a day seven days a week.' The schedule on the whiteboard behind her however says for Sunday 'No practice Enjoy it'   
    Beca is seen watching The Breakfast Club (1985) on her laptop. The actor in that scene is Judd Nelson who was born and raised in Portland Maine which is where Anna Kendrick (Beca) is from.   
    Beca's spring break movie-education includes Say Anything (1989) Animal House (1978) ET: The Extra-Terrestrial (1982) Schindler's List (1993) Slumdog Millionaire (2008) Rocky (1976) Jaws (1975) The Thing (1982) and Scarface (1983).    
    Freddie Stroma who played Luke also starred in A Cinderella Story: Once Upon a Song (2011) as Luke. This movie marks the second consecutive time Stroma stars as a character named Luke.   
    The same poster for Empress Hotel is seen both at the radio station and in Beca's dorm room.   
    During the opening sequence where Beca is mixing a track we see several other mashups already saved on her hard drive. The visible list includes: Accoustica_layer_05 Cat5LemonDrop_8.01 Fifinomenom_1.08 Go_Jump_Eric_2.02 HeavyHouse_remix_6.27 HotSummer_04.22 KillaNois_3.12 Lincifer_QuietRage_7.06 ScrimshawTwinning_2.03 Whisker_DinaSF and ZebraLand_Source_3.18. All are saved in WAV format.   
    Freddie Stroma (who plays the college radio station manager Luke) doesn't have tattoos. Luke however has several including a digital audio control panel (play fast forward stop etc) inside his left forearm. Luke's college major isn't revealed in the movie but Freddie Stroma has a bachelor's degree in neuroscience.    
    Both of the ICCA Finals scenes were filmed in an auditorium designed and built entirely from scratch by the filmmakers possibly due to none of the performance facilities at the actual version of Lincoln Center having an auditorium flashy enough. However in reality the Finals are held in Lincoln Center's Alice Tully Hall every year.   
    Ben Platt who plays Benji was given a leading role in the Chicago production of The Book of Mormon musical after the producers of that show saw this movie. Here Benji is a genuinely nice guy who is unfairly mocked and excluded by his peers. This parallels how the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (Mormons) are often mocked and ridiculed by other Christians and the producers of the musical.   
    During the scene when the Bellas sing "Party in the USA" Chloe hums "Dancing Queen" before she starts singing "Party in the USA"   
    Aubrey calls Beca an Alto but she sings Mezzo for the final performance   
    The first time the Trebles perform you see look-alikes of the new Bellas.   
    At the end of the film six months after the Bellas' victory they are given the chance to choose the audition song. With this in mind that means the Treblemakers picked "Since U Been Gone" for the audition song at the start of the film.   
    Baloney Barb is seen in the BU Harmonics.   
    While earlier competition pieces by the Barden Bellas are classified as medleys their final performance is a mashup containing elements of five songs at times performed simultaneously. Those songs are 'Price Tag' by Jessie J 'Don't You' by Simple Minds 'Give Me Everything' by Pitbull 'Party in the USA' by Miley Cyrus and 'Turn the Beat Around' by Gloria Estefan.    
    In the first five minutes of the film pre-credits the announcer John says "the women typically cannot hit the low notes which really round out an arrangement thrill the judges and that can really hurt them in competition."    In the climax after Chloe has her node surgery her voice changes dramatically. Cynthia Rose suggests she can really "hit the bass notes" now.     The girls then go on to win the final competition with Beca's new arrangement and Chloe's new deep bass voice.  ]
