[
    The finance convention scene was filmed at the Hynes Convention Center which is half a mile from Copley Square -- the place where Jeff Bridges was nearly killed in real-life during the bomb truck explosion scene of Blown Away (1994).   
    In a Reddit AMA discussion Jeff Bridges said that he enjoyed making the movie with the cast and crew but attributed its failure to studio interference. Bridges said "The suits just cut it against the grain and I thought screwed it up." He described the film as "underwhelming".   
Ryan Reynolds has appeared in six films adapted from comic books. The other five films are Blade: Trinity (2004) (Hannibal King) X-Men Origins: Wolverine (2009) (Wade Wilson) Green Lantern (2011) (Hal Jordan) Deadpool (2016) (Deadpool) and Deadpool 2 (2018) (Deadpool).   
    The Boston Police cruisers and ID badges throughout the movie bear the insignia of the same fictional district A-8 featured in many movies including That's My Boy (2012) and The Town (2010).   
    Jeff Bridges has an extensive display of his doodles on his website. In the first scene at R.I.P.D. Boston his doodle of Proctor is on the clipboard that he throws on the desk.   
Zach Galifianakis was originally cast as Roy Powell but dropped out due to scheduling conflicts.   
    This movie has been compared to Men in Black (1997) in that they both deal with secret government agencies contending with otherworldly beings. Jeff Bridges is playing the same kind of character that his good friend and Blown Away (1994) co-star Tommy Lee Jones played in the Men In Black trilogy.   
    Not screened in advance for critics.   
    In the United States and some other countries this film was released on the same day as RED 2 (2013) the sequel to RED (2010) which was directed by Robert Schwentke. It is also starring Mary-Louise Parker. In addition it was released two days after Turbo (2013) an animated film also starring Ryan Reynolds.   
Jodie Foster was considered for the role of Proctor.   
Jeff Bridges and Stephanie Szostak who play likeable characters in this movie played villainous characters in Marvel's Iron Man movies which are also comic book-based. Bridges played Obadiah Stane in Iron Man (2008) and Szostak played Ellen Brandt in Iron Man 3 (2013).   
    You can see Roy driving the car with what's commonly known as a suicide knob on his steering wheel. The knob itself was an EightBall. Roy was literally "behind the Eight Ball."   
    Towards the end of the movie Roy (Jeff Bridges) says "Reminds me of Main Street in Dodge. They picked the wrong man to have a stand off with I invented this shit" before walking into the street and having a Wild West quick draw duel with a couple of Dead-O's. The only recorded true life quick draw shoot out in the Old West involved Dodge City Marshal James Butler 'Wild Bill' Hickock on Main Street in Dodge City Kansas. Jeff Bridges previously played Hickock in "Wild Bill" (1995) and also strongly resembles an older version of that historical character in this movie.   
    The car into which the captive Hayes is put has the license plate 314159. These without the decimal point are the first 6 digits of pi the mathematical constant used to calculate the measure of circles.   
    Part of Nick's file number when being first introduced into the R.I.P.D. is the the first 68 digits in the mathmatical number pi.   
    Nick is branded with the R.I.P.D. badge number 265315. It's interesting to note that amidst the other mentioned Prime numbers that are found in the film this one isn't special at all comparatively. It's not part of the Fibonacci sequence or any of the common popular formulas it's neither a Perfect number nor even a Regular number.   
    Ryan Reynolds holds his handgun incorrectly in the scene where he is shot in the face. He holds it right-handed and uses his middle finger for the trigger keeping his index finger on the side of the pistol.  ]
