[
    The invading army was originally Chinese. It was changed to North Korean in post-production to maintain access to China's box-office.   
    The encoded messages on Radio Free America are identical to those in the original Red Dawn (1984).   
    The film was shot and completed in 2009 and originally scheduled for release on November 24 2010. It was shelved for almost two years due to MGM's financial troubles.   
    When the group is talking about things they miss one person says Call of Duty 4: Modern Warfare (2007). One stage of Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 (2009) is called "Wolverines" taken from the original movie in which Russia invades America.   
    Filmed in the Fall of 2009 halted by MGM's bankruptcy in 2010 and the controversy over using Chinese soldiers. The Chinese soldiers were changed to North Korean before releasing the film in 2012.   
    Early drafts of the script had the protagonists fighting Middle Eastern terrorists.   
    Changing the antagonists from Chinese to North Korean reportedly cost less than 1 million. They changed an opening sequence summarizing the backstory (Chinese "repossession" after the U.S. defaults on loans turned into a North Korean invasion) re-edited two scenes and used digital technology to change Chinese symbols and dialogue to Korean.   
    Chris Hemsworth who plays a Marine is younger than Adrianne Palicki who plays a high school student.   
Chris Hemsworth and Isabel Lucas were both in Home and Away (1988).   
    First film directed by stuntman Dan Bradley.   
    The invading army in the original 1984 movie was the Soviet Union which no longer exists and Cuba. North Korea was chosen as the enemy in this updated version.   
Jeffrey Dean Morgan and Adrianne Palicki appeared in Supernatural (2005). Jeffrey was John Winchester and Adrianne played Sam's girlfriend Jessica.   
Dylan O'Brien auditioned for a role in this film.   
    Some scenes were filmed at the closed Notre Dame High School in Harper Woods Michigan near Detroit. The school cafeteria was the catering hall.   
    The film features propaganda pamphlets posters and banners featuring People's Liberation Army symbols such as the August 1 star. The posters attempt to garner support for a Chinese occupation with slogans such as "Rebuilding Your Reputation" "Repairing Your Economy" and "Fighting Corporate Corruption".   
    In the same year Josh Hutcherson appeared with Chris Hemsworth's brother Liam Hemsworth in The Hunger Games (2012).   
    The newscast that was aired with Dan Lewis a real newscaster (now retired) for the Seattle television station KOMO giving instructions wouldn't have been seen in Spokane.   
Mark Schlereth: Former NFL superstar as coach Dolen the Wolverines football coach.   
    Body Count: 77. Daryl's fate is unknown but he is presumed dead.  ]
