[
    After the success of the earlier film in 2010 Ernest Borgnine always held out hope he'd be around to reprise his role as Henry the records keeper in this movie. When interviewed in April 2012 he mentioned there was talk about it over the years and made one request to the producers. "I told them if they do it I want to carry a gun this time." He kept in touch with Screenwriters Jon Hoeber and Erich Hoeber and in the end would have had a major role in a sequence at the start of the movie. When Borgnine passed away in July 2012 three months prior to the start of production his scenes were reconfigured and would feature an uncredited Titus Welliver.   
    The father in the childhood photo of Byung-Hun Lee's character Han Cho-bai is Lee's real father.   
    Due to strict UK gun laws producers couldn't import the higher caliber guns they desired.   
Helen Mirren (Victoria) says she's the Queen of England. Mirren played different Queens of England in The Queen (2006) Elizabeth I (2005) The Madness of King George (1994) and the play "The Audience" (2013). She won an Emmy and a Golden Globe for her performance in the 2005 miniseries.   
    When Frank Marvin and Sarah are checking the classified Wiki Leaks document in the diner a coffee stain can be seen on the document. This is a Photoshop brush freely available on the Internet which can also be found in several other movies.   
    Dunsfold Aerodrome is also the location of the BBC's Top Gear (2002) studio and test track. Look carefully and you can see rubber tire marks at "Bentley" corner left by cars during the shows Power Lap segments.   
    Sir Anthony Hopkins and Brian Cox have played Hannibal Lecter (Lecktor). Cox originated the part in Manhunter (1986) and Hopkins played the part in The Silence of the Lambs (1991) Hannibal (2001) and Red Dragon (2002) also starring Mary-Louise Parker.   
    This is the second movie released in 2013 to feature Bruce Willis and Byung-Hun Lee. The first was G.I. Joe: Retaliation (2013).   
    Sir Anthony Hopkins and Catherine Zeta-Jones appeared in The Mask of Zorro (1998).   
    In the United States and some other countries this film was released on the same day as R.I.P.D. (2013) the new film from RED (2010) director Robert Schwentke also starring Mary-Louise Parker.   
    The diplomatic number plates are correct. The first three numbers on a UK diplomatic plate tell you which country it belongs to. 182 is assigned to Iran.   
    The film marks the second time that Sir Anthony Hopkins and Dame Helen Mirren worked together. The previous film was Hitchcock (2012).   
    The main poster for this movie with the cast walking towards the camera from out of the shadows may have been inspired by the poster for The Wild Bunch (1969).   
    The initials SJ are seen on the pistol grip of the gun Frank gives to Sarah. They can't stand for Sarah because her last name is Ross and even if she married Frank his last name is Moses. They likely belong to the on set props person Sylvain Joyal.   
    The organist at Marvin's funeral plays You Can't Always Get What You Want. This was also played at the funeral in The Big Chill.   
    After infiltrating the insane asylum Victoria (Helen Mirren) tells Frank (Bruce Willis) that she felt like she was channeling Bette Davis. Bette Davis played Elizabeth I in The Virgin Queen (1955).   
    When Frank's fake passport is being looked at by Han's assistant on the plane it shows Bruce Willis' month and day of birth in 1950 which is five years older than he is.   
    After Han Cho Bai uses the mini gun to pepper the vehicle Frank and Marvin are hiding behind Han approaches their hiding place. As he does an unexplained bullet appears to strike the white van. This is likely a squib that explodes at the wrong time.   
Neal McDonough and David Thewlis appeared in Timeline (2003).   
    In the scene where Frank (Bruce Willis) and Katja (Catherine Zeta-Jones) go out to dinner in Paris the scene opens with a shot of the Pantheon dome at night and then follows Frank and Katja as they walk by a set of steps on the side of a church (Saint-Étienne-du-Mont). The is the same set of steps used in Midnight in Paris (2011). This is where Gil (Owen Wilson) meets the taxi that transports him back in time.   
Bruce Willis and Catherine Zeta-Jones previously appeared together in Ocean's Twelve (2004) and Lay the Favorite (2012).   
    During the Paris car chase Sarah (Mary Louise-Parker) says "Happy Trails Bozo".. This is similar to John McClane's (Bruce Willis) words when he kills Hans Gruber at the end of Die Hard (1988) when he says "Happy Trails Hans"   
    Although he is listed in the opening credits Steven Berkoff's total screentime is less than one minute.   
    The organist at Marvin's funeral is playing the Rolling Stones' "You Can't Always Get What You Want".   
    This marks the second time that Mary-Louise Parker's character has been put in danger either directly or indirectly by Sir Anthony Hopkins' character. The first was in Red Dragon (2002) where Hannibal Lecter reveals her address to the "Tooth Fairy" serial killer.  ]
