[
Cuba Gooding Jr. is not new to the subject of the film. He has previously been in The Tuskegee Airmen (1995).   
    In preparation George Lucas and his staff interviewed surviving Tuskegee Airmen and were given access to their original mission logbooks.   
    This is Terrence Howard's second performance as a Tuskegee Airman his first was Hart's War (2002).   
George Lucas began developing Red Tails around 1988 but was unable to secure funding from any major studio as any he approached believed that producing a film featuring an all black cast would be unmarketable. As a result Lucas ended up funding the project with his own money investing 58 million into the production of the film and a further 35 million towards marketing.   
    In an interview with The New York Times George Lucas stated that the personalities of Easy and Lightning are based on Martin Luther King and Malcolm X respectively.   
George Lucas studied World War II films such as Flying Leathernecks (1951) to prepare for the film.   
George Lucas directed the reshoots. Anthony Hemingway was unavailable having already committed to filming the first season of Treme (2010).   
Samuel L. Jackson was in talks with George Lucas at one point to star in and possibly direct the film.   
Anthony Hemingway is a longtime "Star Wars" fan. According to him when he first met George Lucas he was so excited that he awkwardly said "May the force be with you" which he regrets. When Lucas later hired him he was so overwhelmed that he cried.   
    A prequel and a sequel are planned. George Lucas wants Lee Daniels and Spike Lee to direct them respectively.   
Aaron McGruder harshly criticized Lucas and Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999) in his comic strip "The Boondocks". MacGruder felt that the character of Jar Jar Binks was based on negative African-American stereotypes. But according to McGruder Lucas did not bring it up during their meetings. They have became friends since their meeting.   
    The bombers the Red Tails are escorting throughout the movie are most likely taking off from Foggia airbase in southern Italy that was captured by the the British Eighth Army in October 1943.   
George Lucas began pre-production on the film in 1988. Thomas Carter was his first choice to direct.   
    Director Anthony Hemingway's first feature film.   
Terrence Howard Kevin Phillips and Nate Parker have worked previously worked together in Pride (2007).   
George Lucas was set to direct at one point.   
    There are four cast members who are alum from The Wire; Andre Royo who played Bubbles Michael B. Jordan who played Wallace Tristan Wilds who played Michael Lee and Method Man who played Cheese.   
    In The Wire: Know Your Place (2006) Tristan Mack Wilds can be seen wearing a Tuskegee Airmen T-shirt.   
    Elijah Kelley initially read for the role of Lieutenant Ray "Ray Gun" Gannon.   
    Tristan Wilds auditioned for the role of Lt. Joe "Lightning" Little.   
    Terrence Howard and Andre Royo go on to star in the hit show Empire together. Royo plays Howards lawyer.   
    James D. Weston II who drives P.O.W Tristan Wilds (Raygun) back to his unit in Jeep (last 10 minutes in movie) was actually a member of the Tuskeegee Airmen (Bay Area Chapter). He also served in the Navy Reserves in an Aviation Support Unit and graduated from Aviation High School in New York.  ]
