[
Vin Diesel agreed to make a cameo appearance in The Fast and the Furious: Tokyo Drift (2006) in exchange for the rights to the "Riddick" franchise from Universal Pictures. This allowed him to produce this film independently.   
    Production on the film was in jeopardy of shutting down when there was a delay in financing. Vin Diesel funded the film himself until the bank loan came through.   
    When Riddick steps into the identifier for the emergency beacon the stats on him read: "Richard B. Riddick. Escaped convict. Murderer." This is how he introduced himself to the character of Paris in Pitch Black (2000).   
Vin Diesel wanted the movie to be shot on 35mm film but due to the film's low budget paired with a large number of visual effect shots the movie had to be shot digitally. As a compromise David Twohy added a subtle film grain effect throughout the film.   
Vin Diesel's original vision was to have The Chronicles of Riddick become like J.R.R Tolkien's Middle-Earth. Pitch Black (2000) was to serve like "The Hobbit" to be a stand alone film to establish the universe and to have a trilogy of Riddick serving like Lord of the Rings.   
Keri Hilson auditioned for the role of Dahl. The role went to Katee Sackhoff but David Twohy was so impressed with Hilson's charisma that wrote a small role for her in the film.   
    "Riddick" takes place five years after the previous film "The Chronicles of Riddick" which was set five years after the original film "Pitch Black." This means that "Riddick" takes place a decade after "Pitch Black" even though "Riddick" was released thirteen years after "Pitch Black."   
    Several of the rock formations on the planet resemble the heads of the predatorial creatures Riddick battled in Pitch Black (2000).   
    When Riddick says "I'll ride it like I stole it" it's a nod to the Fast and Furious films.   
    When Riddick says "It ain't me you got to worry about" it's a reference to his line in Pitch Black (2000).   
Dave Bautista and Vin Diesel also go on to star in Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) although Vin Diesel plays a CGI character (Groot). Additionally Michael Rooker did voice work in the spin off video game The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay and he too went on to appear in Guardians Of The Galaxy as Yondu.   
    In order to prepare for his role in this film Vin Diesel spent four months in the woods.   
    It was rumored at one point that "Riddick" was going to follow Riddick as he journeys to The Underverse to find Kyra.   
Karl Urban makes a brief appearance as Vaako the Necromonger Commander from the previous film.   
    The "exploding bomb" shoulder patch worn by Johns' mercenaries is an actual U.S. Army shoulder patch of the 52nd Ordnance Group (EOD).   
    The bounty on Riddick's head is never stated. Diaz claims to know what it is but never says.   
    When the film was advertised on Sky Television in New Zealand a voiceover stated that the film was the final chapter in the Riddick trilogy. A fourth film entitled "Furya" was announced & was in development; it was rumored that the 4th film is about Riddick finally finding his home planet.   
    The screenplay's original title was "The Chronicles of Riddick: Dead Man Stalking".   
First Blood (1982) is considered by a few to be an influence behind the film. Like John Rambo Riddick uses the desolate planet and it's environment to his advantage and his survival skills against the mercenaries whom have arrived on the planet to capture him dead or alive.   
    The film takes place in 2592.   
Dave Bautista is the second professional wrestler to work with Vin Diesel after Dwayne Johnson in Fast Five (2011) and the following films in the Fast and the Furious franchise.   
    The film is basically about Riddick finding himself in a similar situation like he was in Pitch Black (2000) which Riddick was stranded on a desert planet which he and the survivors of Hunter-Gratzner were hunted by the flesh eating Bioraptors.   
    The character of Riddick is considered to be a mix of iconic 1980s action characters John Rambo Snake Plissken and Conan the Barbarian: In his backstory Riddick was a soldier in the military and Riddick became a notorious wanted criminal whom escaped from several prisons. Riddick later discovered that he is of a race of warrior called Furians that had been slain by The Lord Marshal and he became the Necromonger's new Lord Marshal when he killed him and on U.V.6 and Not-Fyra Riddick uses his resources survival skills and warrior and tracker skills and uses both planet's environments to his advantages against the mercenaries.   
First Blood (1982) Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (1982) Pitch Black (2000) and Seraphim Falls (2006) have been considered by a few to be influences behind the film.   
Seraphim Falls (2006) is considered by a few to be an influence behind the film. In that film Pierce Brosnan stars as a hunted man who uses his resources and skills with a knife as he is pursed by a group of men bent on his capture and the leader of the men hunting him (Liam Neeson) is a man from his past whom has a score to settle with him. In this film Riddick uses his resources and survival skills against the mercenaries out to capture or kill him for the bounty which one of the mercenaries Boss Johns whom is a man connected to Riddick's past seeks to capture Riddick alive as Boss Johns demands answers from Riddick about his son.   
    The same year Katee Sackhoff starred opposite Vin Diesel and Dave Bautista's future Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) co-star Karen Gillan in the horror film Oculus (2013).   
    Matt Nobles who plays Boss Johns and the father of Cole Hauser's character from Pitch Black is actually just three years older then Cole Haiser.    
    In New Zealand the film was given the Restricted 16 rating for its graphic violence profanity and nudity.   
    Vin Diesel and Dave Bautista starred in another science fiction film together - Guardians of the Galaxy (2014) which Vin Diesel provided the voice of Groot and Dave Bautista starred as Drax the Destroyer.   
Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (1982) was speculated by a few to be an influence behind the film. In the film Riddick an notorious warrior outlaw and Lord Marshal is stranded on desolate planet and manages to survive due to his survival skills and is alone on the planet until the arrival of bounty hunters whom know of him and his reputation.   
    3 years after the film's release Karl Urban (Vaako) return again in the role of Dr. Leonard "Bones" McCoy in Star Trek Beyond (2016). In that film the USS Enterprise crew find themselves stranded on the planet Altamid. In this film Riddick is marooned on Not Furya.   
    While in chains Riddick "predicts" that he'll kill Santana within a sixty second window. After doing so he exclaims "I like to be a man of my word." Riddick can be seen in similar circumstances in previous installments. In the animated short The Chronicles of Riddick: Dark Fury (2004) Riddick told the head merc Junner that he would bury his weapon in Junner's eye. In the film The Chronicles of Riddick (2004) he threatened to kill a prison guard with a metal "tea cup" after witnessing his abuse of Kyra. Each opponent met his end exactly how Riddick predicted.   
Matt Nable's character Boss Johns is the father of William J. Johns portrayed by Cole Hauser in Pitch Black (2000). In real life Nable is only three years older than Hauser.   
    Riddick Kills: 10   
    The joystick in the cockpit of the craft Riddick leaves the planet on is a Saitek x52.   
    When Boss Johns questions Riddick about the death of his son Riddick tells Boss that he didn't kill his son which Boss Johns doesn't believe Riddick. In Pitch Black (2000) Johns was killed by a Bioraptor in the aftermath of a fight with Riddick which Riddick slashed Johns in the back with a knife and Riddick left Johns at the mercy of the Bioraptors.  ]
