[
    In one scene the Tooth Fairy finds a mouse beneath a pillow and identifies it as "one of us European division." Ratoncito (Little Mouse) Perez or "The Tooth Mouse" is a children's book character created by Spanish author Luis Coloma in 1894 said to replace lost baby teeth with gifts in Spain Portugal France Italy and Latin America.   
    Bunny mentions that Jack Frost caused a blizzard on Easter Sunday of 1968 a reference to an actual event.   
    A post-film dedication appears "For Mary Katherine Joyce. A Guardian fierce and true." This refers to William Joyce's daughter who died at age 18 from a brain tumor. The movie was based on Joyce's book series "Guardians of Childhood" which was inspired by stories he told his daughter. MK the main protagonist in Epic (2013) is based off of her.   
    Aside from the Guardians and Pitch none of the adult characters' faces are clearly seen.   
    Whenever North is surprised or alarmed he exclaims loudly with the name of a classical Russian composer. For example he yells "Shostakovich'' just before he falls down the rabbit hole and "Rimsky-Korsakov That's a lot of eggs" in Bunnymund's warren (relevant composers: Dmitri Shostakovich and Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov). This may be an homage to the "Rocky & Bullwinkle" cartoons where Boris Badenov's favorite expression was "Raskolnikov" the criminal from Fyodor Dostoevsky's "Crime and Punishment." It may also be a nod to Ira Gershwin's and Kurt Weill's famous novelty song from Lady In The Dark "Tchaikovsky" the lyrics of which consist entirely of the names of various famous Russian composers including the ones used by North. In the beginning of the movie when North is making a train set out of ice he can also be heard humming to famous Russian composer Igor Stravinsky's "Firebird Suite"   
    At the beginning of the movie Jack Frost walks through a Colonial American village. In the background the folk song village musicians are playing is called "Kempe's Jig." This was a popular early eighteenth century English dance song named in honor of William Kempe a famous sixteenth century English comic stage actor whose work influenced modern comedic acting stand-up comedy and improvisational comic skits.   
    Bunnymund opens a rabbit hole and jumps down it. This is a reference to Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland" where a rabbit hole leads into another dimension.   
    The last DreamWorks Animation film to be distributed by Paramount before 20th Century Fox took over.   
Leonardo DiCaprio was originally set to voice Jack Frost but dropped out of the film during pre-production.   
    When Jack Frost is kidnapped to North's Headquarters he calls Bunny a kangaroo. Later on Frost apologizes for that to which Bunny replies "It's the accent isn't it?" This is a reference to Hugh Jackman the voice of Bunny who was born in Australia known as "the land of kangaroos."   
    Jack Frost's age has been a debatable subject among the fans. William Joyce executive producer and author of The Guardians of Childhood series on which this film is based has confirmed that Jack Frost is fourteen years old and wanted Leonardo DiCaprio to voice the character because he believed he could capture the inner child. During a Q&A; on Reddit Director Peter Ramsey said that he believes Jack to be seventeen years old. (Eighteen by some accounts.) Chris Pine was 32 years old when he recorded his lines for Jack which was met with a mixed initial reception from online commentators.   
    When Sandy is signaling everyone to look at the Man in the Moon a crescent moon appears above his head. This is otherwise known as the DreamWorks Animation logo.   
    Bunnymund paraphrases Crocodile Dundee from Crocodile Dundee (1986) as he compares his bag of teeth to Jack Frost's. "You call that a bag of choppers now this is a bag of choppers" is paraphrased from the famous "You call that a knife..." line.   
    On any globe in the film the island state of Tasmania (off the southeast coast of Australia) is non-existent despite it being quite large.   
    This was the last Christmas movie Roger Ebert ever wrote a review for. He did give it a good one.   
    When Jack Frost voiced by Chris Pine who portrayed Captain James T. Kirk in Star Trek (2009) Star Trek Into Darkness (2013) and Star Trek Beyond (2016) refuses to join The Guardians North says to Jack "Walk with me." In Star Trek (2009) Captain Robau of the U.S.S. Kelvin says this in the same fashion to James Kirk's father First Officer George Kirk thus promoting him to Captain before Robau is transported to the Romulan ship to meet his death.   
    When Sandman appears for the first time he is in Rio de Janeiro as evidenced by the Christ the Redeemer Statue in the background.   
Christopher Lee Dwayne Johnson Natalie Portman Hugh Laurie Ian McShane and voice actor Tom Kenny were all rumored to be involved in this movie at various points of production.   
Hugh Jackman's second Dreamworks Animation film after Flushed Away (2006).   
Alec Baldwin's 2nd Dreamworks Animation film after Madagascar: Escape 2 Africa (2008).   
    Grossed 103 million domestically the lowest figure for a Dreamworks Animation film since The Prince of Egypt (1998).   
    First Dreamworks Animation film to release on Thanksgiving. The 2nd would later be Penguins of Madagascar (2014) in 2014.   
Isla Fisher's 3rd Animated film after Horton Hears a Who (2008) and Rango (2011).   
Jude Law's 2nd voice over performance in a film after A Series of Unfortunate Events (2004).   
Alec Baldwin (North) and Chris Pine (Jack Frost) had both played the character Jack Ryan in two different films Baldwin in The Hunt for Red October (1990) and Pine in Jack Ryan: Shadow Recruit (2014).   
    Dreamworks Animation's fourth non-original computer animated film after Shrek (2001) which is based off a picture book but with a different story Over the Hedge (2006) which is based off a comic strip and How to Train Your Dragon (2010) which is based off a children's book. Rise of the Guardians (2012) is based off the Guardians of Childhood book series by William Joyce.   
    When Jack Frost is first kidnapped to the North Pole there is a tapestry on the wall behind North that depicts North and the yetis shaking hands. This could be from a time when North asked the yetis to work for him.   
    Jack Frost is the second Dreamworks Animation protagonist to have his hair turn white after it was originally brown. The first was Susan Murphy/Ginormica from Monsters vs. Aliens (2009). Only Jack Frost resembles his voice actor Chris Pine with the brown hair and Susan/Ginormica resembles her voice actress Reese Witherspoon with the white hair.   
    The first DreamWorks animated film not to be scored by Hans Zimmer and other Remote Control Productions composers such as John Powell and Harry Gregson-Williams. It's also the first to be scored by a different composer and one of the few films to do so being followed by The Croods (2013) Mr Peabody and Sherman (2014) Trolls (2016) and Captain Underpants: The First Epic Movie (2017).   
    Director Peter Ramsey is the first African-American to helm a big budget CGI animated film.   
    The film takes place some 300 years after the source novels.   
    Leading cinematographer Roger Deakins advised on lighting and the look and feel of the film.   
    Although the film made over 300 million worldwide it actually lost DreamWorks about 80 million because of its high budget. Its failure was instrumental in the company having to lay off over 300 members of staff.   
    Pitch's realm's entrance being under a bed is symbolic of the first bed he ever hid under.   
    The tooth fairies resemble hummingbirds.   
    When the sandman is resurrected and starts to turn the nightmares into dreams and we see the leg of a brachiosaurus the background music changes slightly to for a few notes of the Jurassic Park theme   
    Has several plot points similar to that of Monsters vs. Aliens (2009). The protagonist becomes different through no means of his or her own and their hair turns white as a side effect. What caused them to be different was presumably painful. (Jack fell into an ice cold lake and Susan Murphy was hit by a meteorite containing quantonium). After becoming different they have no means of communication with the outside world. (No one believes in Jack Frost and Susan is locked away in a top secret facility). They must fight alongisde other different individuals to defeat a deranged antagonist that wants things to go his way (Gallaxhar and Pitch Black). It is implied that a member of the team dies (Insectosaurus and Sand Man) but they come back in the end proven alive.   
    Plot hole: whether or not the kids believe in Pitch they can still see him but they aren't afraid of him (necessarily). After the fight during the snowball fight in the morning they kids run right through pitch as if they didn't believe in him which they should believe after having fought him. However Jack can't be seen until he is believed in.   ]
