[
Tom Cruise based his performance of Stacee Jaxx mostly on Jim Morrison and Axl Rose.   
Poison and Def Leppard performed live at the premiere with a Bourbon Room backdrop on the stage. Def Leppard dedicated their song Pour Some Sugar On Me to "our good friend Stacee Jaxx".   
    The "Hit Me With Your Best Shot" number uses the choreography from the ending of Michael Jackson's "Beat It" video.   
Tom Cruise took voice lessons for four and a half months. His routine included push-ups and ab work.   
Alec Baldwin disowned the film calling it a "horrible movie" and stated that the only reason he did it was to work with Tom Cruise.   
Tom Cruise rehearsed for five hours every day to get his voice ready for his rock performances.   
Tom Cruise admitted to being terrified at the prospect of being in a musical but saw it as a personal challenge to be overcome.   
    First ever musical for Tom Cruise.   
    Paul Gill is loosely based on Doc McGhee a noted rock manager who has managed such acts as Mötley Crüe and Ozzy Osbourne.   
    The scene set under the Hollywood sign was actually shot on a garbage dump landfill in Pompano Beach Florida.   
    When Drew love interest of Sherrie is clocking in at the "Bourbon" the soundtrack plays the first few notes of Steve Perry's 1984 hit single "Oh Sherrie."   
Constantine Maroulis plays a record executive in this film. He originated the role of Drew Boley in the Broadway production and was nominated for the 2009 Tony Award for Best Leading Actor in a Musical for his performance.   
Anne Hathaway and Amy Adams were offered the role of Constance but both declined due conflicting schedule for a superhero film. Hathaway was busy shooting The Dark Knight Rises (2012) and Adams was shooting Man of Steel (2013). Malin Akerman who appeared in Watchmen (2009) was ultimately cast.   
    Despite failing to recoup its 75 million dollar budget Rock of Ages (2012) had the seventh best opening of a musical.   
Taylor Swift was considered to play Sherrie but Julianne Hough was cast.   
Seth Rogen turned down the role of Lonny citing his lack of singing ability.   
    To prepare for the film Julianne Hough (Sherrie) had to take basic lessons on how to strip and was trained by a local stripper.   
    Def Leppard coincidentally happened to be touring in America at the time of the film shooting and were able to be present on the day that Tom Cruise filmed his interpretation of their song "Pour Some Sugar on Me".   
    In the "song duel" outside the club the anti-rock protesters who are obviously modeled on the Parents' Music Resource Center (the group who imposed the "Parental Advisory" warning stickers on recordings) sing Twisted Sister's "We're Not Gonna Take It." In real life Dee Snider of Twisted Sister was one of the PMRC's most outspoken critics and testified against their proposals in the September 1985 Senate hearings.   
    When Lonny calls the audience "a foul and pestilent congregation of vapors" he is quoting William Shakespeare's "Hamlet" Act II Scene 2.   
Will Ferrell and Steve Carell were considered to play Dennis Dupree.   
Diego Boneta learned to play the guitar for the film.   
Gloria Estefan was considered for the role of Patricia Whitmore. She was so heavily favored for the part that she even substituted for Catherine Zeta-Jones at some of the table readings when Zeta-Jones was unavailable.   
    When Justice (Mary J. Blige) finds Sherrie outside the Venus Club in the rain there is a DeLorean parked outside the entrance.   
    Denise Faye who plays one of the 'Protest Mothers' previously starred as one of the 'Cell Block Tango' dancers in Chicago (2002) alongside Catherine Zeta-Jones who played 'Velma Kelly'.   
    The title Rock of Ages refers here to the generations of people who like rock music but is also a play on Rock of Ages an extremely popular eighteenth century hymn written by Reverend Augustus Montague Toplady. In the song the Rock is a natural formation which shelters a man during a storm and is seen as a metaphor of God the Father protecting his children. It's is also the name of a Def Leppard song from their Pyromania album.   
    When Sherrie and Drew are in the record store a copy of the original Footloose (1984) soundtrack can be seen in front of Sherrie. Julianne Hough starred in the remake Footloose (2011).   
    Feature film debut of Arielle Reitsma.   
Gwyneth Paltrow and Olivia Wilde were considered for the role of Constance Sack before Malin Akerman was cast.   
    Chris D'Arienzo original book writer of the stage musical admitted to having been disappointed by the movie citing the unnecessary story changes poor casting (was apparently shocked that Constantine Maroulis was not asked to reprise the role of Drew) and how glossy the singing sounded saying that "It may have looked liked the 80s but it's missing the dirty-likability that made the 80s awesome". He's vowed that a possible remake will be independently-made rather then studio produced.   
    Tom Cruise and Alec Baldwin later worked together on Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation (2015).   
    WILHELM SCREAM: When one of the members of the Z-guyeezz gets thrown off The Bourbon Room stage and falls to the floor.   
    Joel Hoekstra who at the time played guitar for the Broadway production of Rock of Ages and for the band Night Ranger can be seen to the left over Will Forte's shoulder during the "We Built This City" scene.   
Jamie Dornan auditioned for the role of Drew Boley.   
    Cameo (Kevin Nash): The wrestler Kevin Nash is one of Stacee Jax's bodyguards.   
    The photo of Sherrie Christian (Julianne Hough) and her grandmother is an actual picture of Julianne Hough and her grandma. The writing on the back of the photo is just on a piece of paper. The reason for that is because Julianne didn't want her picture ruined.   
    Contrary to belief the major changes to the story were not at the insistence of Warner Brothers but that of Adam Shankman. Openly admitting that he didn't care for the original stage play he vowed to "fix" its problems despite originally gaining critical praise and a cult audience. Much of the changes took away the "R" rated raciness in favor of something more appropriate for a general audience.   
    Catherine Zeta Jones' second movie musical the first being Chicago (2002).   
    The film takes place in 1987.   
John Carney was first offered director's chair having directed the Irish musical Once (2007). He declined stating a lack of knowledge of the "80s American hair rock" scene and was uncomfortable handling a larger budget.   
    The record executive in "Anyway You Want It"(Constantine Maroulis) played Drew in the original Broadway cast.   
    Patricia Whitmore (Catherine Zeta-Jones) leads a religious group called Ladies Organization to Stop Evil Rock Singers. If you called it by its initials it spells out LOSERS.   
    May 10th the date Sherrie started at The Bourbon Room is the birthday of U2 lead singer Bono.   
    In Rock Of Ages (2012) Paul Giamatti plays a lying agent and in Big Fat Liar (2002) he played a lying producer.   
    Doc McGhee currently manages KISS.   
    Paul Giamatti and Paul Gill share the same first name.   
    Julianne Hough and Russell Brand would later go on to appear in Paradise (2013).   
Sebastian Bach: the former lead singer of Skid Row is in the crowd next to Russell Brand during "We Built This City/We're Not Going To Take It". Skid Row's song "I Remember You" is heard playing in the Tower Records store while Drew and Sherrie are shopping.   
Nuno Bettencourt: guitarist/vocalist for the band Extreme (Who's song "More Than Words" is featured in the film.) singing "We Built This City" with the supporters of The Bourbon Room.   
Kevin Cronin: lead singer of the band REO Speedwagon singing "We Built This City" with the people supporting The Bourbon Room.   
Debbie Gibson: in the crowd of Bourbon Room supporters singing "We Built This City".   
Eli Roth: the music video director for the Z Guyeeezz's music video.  ]
