[
    In an interview with Austrian Times on the occasion of his 60th birthday Niki Lauda stated that a journalist asking him how his injured face affected his marriage was the biggest insult he had to suffer in his life.   
    When Niki Lauda first saw 'Rush' he said "Sh*t That's really me."   
    The James Hunt/Niki Lauda 1976 race depicted in the film was the last Formula One event staged on Germany's notorious Nürburgring Nordschleife (North Loop) since the lap was deemed far too hazardous.   
Daniel Brühl and Chris Hemsworth weren't allowed to drive a real Formula 1 car so they had to use Formula 3 vehicles with fake F1 bodywork instead.   
Daniel Brühl wore a dental appliance to mimic Niki Lauda's overbite.   
    Despite having to bend the truth in some areas the film was warmly received by the most discerning critics namely the Formula One industry. When Rush was pre-release screened at the German Grand Prix in July (2013) the audience comprised a group of F1 drivers team bosses and British motor sports magnate Bernie Ecclestone. Director Ron Howard declared that the experience was his toughest 'reality' test since screening his Apollo 13 (1995) for NASA's astronauts and mission controllers in 1995. Nevertheless Rush received a standing ovation.   
    The real Niki Lauda claims the movie was entirely accurate. However the film took creative liberties of the James Hunt and Lauda rivalry.   
    While Lauda Air had some some 40+ planes in their fleet Niki Lauda actually piloted a lot of these planes himself during regular flight operation.   
Chris Hemsworth auditioned for the James Hunt role while he was filming The Avengers (2012) and impressed Ron Howard so much he was signed instantly.   
Chris Hemsworth shed 14 kilos to play James Hunt. He originally weighed 98 kilos having bulked up for the titular character in Thor (2011).   
    Jochen Mass portrayed himself driving the 12 Marlboro McLaren in the movie. Mass was seen passing stuntmen portraying Niki Lauda and James Hunt (Mass' teammate) in a key scene at the 1976 German Grand Prix the site of the Nurburgring accident. A production assistant assigned to work on the end-of-movie credit roll was making the rounds on the set of the movie "Rush" as the crew filmed at the Nurburgring race track in Germany in fall 2012 asked Mass what his name was as he was wearing a racing suit with "Jochen Mass" on it. When he stated his name several times...The PA looked flustered "No your real name. What is your real name" . The PA went off in search of someone who spoke German because she was sure the man was not understanding her question on not who he was portraying in the movie but what his ACTUAL name was. Mass is now 67 enjoying a decade in Formula 1 racing from 1973 to 1982 won the 1975 Spanish Grand Prix - his only F1 triumph and the 1989 24 Hours of Le Mans. Although he retired from competitive driving long ago he still races the occasional vintage car event. He's fit and managed to emerge pretty much unscathed from his career in racing.   
Peter Morgan wrote the script of Rush (2013) 'on spec' or speculation meaning there was no one waiting to buy it. So he wrote the first draft assuming there might not even be any racing sequences at all because the prospective film would probably have a very low budget. 'If you grow up in England that's how you think' he said. Instead he structured the film as a race of sorts between the two main characters.   
    In the Havoline ad near the end you hear James Hunt's voice but see Chris Hemsworth's face.   
    The music for Rush was composed by Hans Zimmer and was named 'Lost But Won'.   
    For insurance reasons many of the F1 cars were driven by their owners who had experience in historic racing.   
    The blue six-wheeled Formula One car is a Tyrrell P34. Its design had several technical advantages and Jody Scheckter did win one race in the car in 1976. But it eventually became uncompetitive due to the weight of its complex front suspension problems with understeer and Goodyear's inability to continue the development of its unique 10-inch tires. The Tyrrell team raced the P34 in 1976 and 1977.   
    Originally Paul Greengrass was on board as the director in development stage for Rush (2013). Greengrass though would eventually swap feature film projects with Ron Howard who was set to direct Captain Phillips (2013) during its developmental stage at the time. Greengrass came on to helm Captain Phillips (2013) instead as Howard went on board to helm Rush (2013) in replacement of Greengrass.   
Alastair Caldwell who plays an FIA (Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile) official in the film was chief engineer and manager for the McLaren team during the depicted 1976 season. Caldwell acted as the main technical adviser to director Ron Howard on the shoot and is briefly portrayed by actor Stephen Mangan.   
    Screenwriter Peter Morgan's wife is Austrian as is real-life driver Niki Lauda. This connection proved beneficial since Morgan and Lauda met for some 30 dinners together in a Vienna restaurant.   
    This is the second director/screenwriter collaboration of Ron Howard and Peter Morgan after their highly acclaimed Frost/Nixon (2008) stage-to-screen adaptation in 2008. (The duo's third collaboration is also currently in the works.)   
    The 5 Lotus that appeared in the film was also seen competing at the Historic Grand Prix of Monaco in Iron Man 2 (2010). The car was driven by its owner Chris Locke on both occasions.   
    The famous line from the trailers is: "More powerful than even the fear of death itself is the will to win."   
Russell Crowe was considered for the role of Richard Burton.   
    The 'tail number' of James Hunt's plane is G-IFTE or 'Gifted'.   
Daniel Brühl and Alexandra Maria Lara who play husband and wife Niki and Marlene Lauda are best known for their portrayal of characters in different movies about Adolf Hitler. Brühl is in Inglourious Basterds (2009) and Lara is in Downfall (2004).   
    The song "Gimme Some Lovin" is featured during the first race in the film - when the Hunt/Lauda rivalry is introduced. The song was also used during a racing montage early in 'Days of Thunder' - when the Cole Trickle / Rowdy Burns rivaly is introduced.   
    The only film that year nominated for Best Motion Picture Drama at the Golden Globes and not Best Picture at the Academy Awards.   
    There are three celebrities in this movie that have starred in comic book movies  *Chris Hemsworth plays Thor (Thor The Avengers Thor: The Dark World Avengers: Age of Ultron Thor: Ragnarok)  *Daniel Brühl plays Baron Zemo (Captain America: Civil War)  *Natalie Dormer played Pvt. Loraine (Captain America: The First Avenger)   
    Although both have acted in recent superhero movies involving the Avengers Hemsworth and Bruhl haven't yet acted together in the same one. The character Thor repeatedly played by Chris Hemsworth in the 2008-onwards Marvel Cinematic Universe was one of the only two members of The Avengers absent during the events of "Captain America: Civil War (2016)" in which Daniel Brühl featured as the Avengers' antagonist Baron Zemo.   
    Despite receiving nominations for Best Supporting Actor at the Golden Globes BAFTAs Screen Actors Guild awards Critics Choice awards and even the Saturn Awards Daniel Brühl failed to receive an Academy Award nomination. Critics audiences major film groups and publications considered this a major snub at the time.   
    James Hunt is portrayed as a ladies man. The actor Chris Hemsworth was voted the sexiest man on the planet 2014.   
    Both Natalie Dormer and Jamie Sives from Game of Thrones appear in Rush.   
Bernie Ecclestone: Seen at the finishing line of the 1975 USA Grand Prix.   
Niki Lauda crashed at the left-hand kink of the Bergwerk ("The Mine") corner of the Nürburgring north loop. Bergwerk is perhaps the Nürburgring's most dangerous corner and its left-hand kink is now sometimes referred to as the Lauda Links ("Lauda left.")   
    The film portrays a composite of two real fatal accidents at Watkins Glen combining what appears to be the remains of a blue liveried 1973 Tyrrell 006 with the configuration of Helmuth Koinigg's accident and decapitation while driving a Surtees TS16 in the 1974 race.    The fatal accident depicted in the Watkins Glen scene was that of French driver François Cevert who won the race the previous year. Cévert was killed during practice for the 1973 U.S. Grand Prix. Jackie Stewart Cévert's teammate and mentor withdrew and retired from racing after the crash. A    similar accident occurred one year later when Austrian rookie Helmuth Koinigg died during the 1974 Grand Prix.   
Ron Howard on the 11/24/2012 edition of Speed Channel's "Formula One Debrief" stated that he did not use the original footage of the Niki Lauda crash at the Nürburgring but did film at that corner of the old (pre-current F1 racing configuration) circuit.  ]
